0160 - MEETINGS
===============

### 0161 - Parliamentary Authority

The parliamentary authority governing the Board of Education shall be
the most recent edition Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised, in all
cases in which it is not inconsistent with Statute, administrative code
or these bylaws, or the rules of order of this Board.

Revised 1/23/01

### 0162 - Quorum

Three (3) members present at a meeting shall constitute a quorum, and no
business shall be conducted in the absence of a quorum. (R.C. 3313.18)

### 0163 - Presiding Officer

The President shall preside at all meetings of the Board. In the
absence, disability, or disqualification of the President, the Vice
President shall act instead; if neither person is available, any member
shall be designated by a majority of those present to preside. The act
of any person so designated shall be legal and binding.

### 0164 - Notice of Meetings

A. A schedule of the time and place of all regular meetings shall be
distributed to the major media serving the community and posted at the
Board of Education office.

B. Notice of the time, place, and purpose of each special meeting shall
be given to the official newspaper(s) and to such news media as have
requested such notice twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the meeting,
except that when an emergency requires the immediate official action of
the Board, the member(s) calling the meeting shall immediately notify
the media requesting such notice of the time, place, and purpose of the
meeting. (R.C. 121.22)

C. Notice of meetings at which a specific type of public business is to
be discussed shall be sent to all persons requesting such notice upon
payment of fees which may be established by the Board.

D. The Treasurer shall notify all Board members of each Board meeting no
later than seventy-two (72) hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice
shall include the time and place of the meeting, the agenda, the
Superintendent's recommendations, and the financial reports and other
pertinent information.

R.C. 3313.16

0164.1

### Notification of Board Meetings

A. Any news media organization or other person that desires to be given
advance notification of regular or special meetings of the Board of
Education shall file a written request with the Treasurer of the Board.

B. Request for advance notification of regular and special meetings
shall specify the name and address of the news media or person to whom
the written notification may be mailed.

C. Requests for notification by the news media and other persons shall
be valid for the remainder of the calendar year in which requests are
made.

D. Except in the event of an emergency requiring immediate official
action, notice of a special meeting will be given at least twenty-four
(24) hours in advance of the time, place, and purpose of such special
meeting.

E. In the event of an emergency special meeting, twenty-four (24) hours
advance notice need not be given as long as every effort is made and
documented to give oral or written notification to the news media that
have requested such advance notification of the time, place, and purpose
of each special meeting.

F. The Treasurer of the Board shall post on the bulletin board in the
Board office the yearly schedule of all regular and special meetings. In
the event meetings are added or changed, the Treasurer shall post such
notice at least twenty-four (24) hours before the meeting unless an
emergency special meeting is called.

G. All school Board meeting notices shall also contain the following
statement: "Upon request to the Superintendent of Schools, the District
shall make reasonable accommodations for a disabled person to
participate in this activity."

R.C. 3313.26

Revised 4/23/93

0165.1

### Regular Meetings

Regular meetings of the Board shall be public and held at least once
every two (2) months. (R.C. 121.22, 3313.15) Generally, however, the
Board shall meet twice monthly. A regular meeting shall be comprised of
a work session, and as necessary, a business session and executive
session. Work session agendas and information discussed will be set by
the President in consultation with the Superintendent. Board members may
present agenda items to the President for inclusion in the agenda and
should suggest a time limit for the agenda item. The President shall
include such items on the agenda unless in the President's judgment the
agenda cannot be accomplished in a reasonable time. Any items submitted
by Board members that are not included on the agenda, shall be included
on the agenda of the next regular meeting. Work sessions will be for the
purpose of presenting informational items to the Board, particularly
items that are likely to come to the Board for action at a later
meeting. Except for emergency items and routine employment or
termination from existing positions and monthly financials, items coming
before the Board for action should be discussed at the work session
preceding the meeting when the item will be presented to the Board for
action. A work session shall be convened for a determined amount of time
stated in the agenda and may be extended by a majority of the Board.
When in work session the Board may consider items in the mode informal
discussion. Business session shall be for the purpose of taking Board
action and shall be conducted according to Robert's Rules Newly Revised.
Public participation in work sessions and business sessions shall be
governed by Policy 0169.1

A. After consultation with the President, it shall be the responsibility
of the Superintendent to prepare an agenda of the items of business to
come before the Board at each regular meeting. The agenda shall include
items designated for work session, and as necessary, business session
and executive session.

B. Consent Agenda

The Board may use a consent agenda to keep routine matters within a
reasonable time frame.

A member of the Board may request any item be removed from the consent
agenda. No vote of the Board will be required to remove an item from the
consent agenda. A single member's request shall cause it to be relocated
as an action item eligible for discussion.

C. The order of business for regular meetings of the Board of Education
shall be as follows, unless altered by a majority of those present and
voting:

​1. Call to Order

1.1 Roll Call

1.2 Pledge of Allegiance

1.3 Adoption of the Agenda

1.4 Approval of Minutes

​2. Convene for business session-if needed

2.1 Revisions to Agenda-if needed

2.2 Public Participation and Introduction of Guests

2.3 Springboro Education Association Report

2.4 Springboro Classified Employees Association Report

2.5 Public Participation-Prearranged

​3. Convene for work session (if needed, use informal consideration
rules)

3.1 Committee Reports

3.2 Discussion of work session agenda items

3.3 Discussion of other business as required

3.4 Public participation on work session agenda items

3.5 Suspend or adjourn work session

​4. Treasurer’s Report

​5. Superintendent’s Report

​6. Department Reports

​7. Board Member Reports, Comments, Questions

​8. Public Announcements

​9. Future Considerations

​10. Resume work session – if needed

​11. Executive session – if needed

​12. Adjournment

If an action item becomes necessary as a result of an executive session,
the item will be acted upon immediately following the executive session.
The work session is open to the public; however, *except for
adjournment,* there will be no action items.

Revised 1/22/91

Revised 4/23/93

Revised 10/24/95

Revised 1/12/99

Revised 1/23/01

Revised 10/23/01

Revised 9/23/03

Revised 4/26/11

Revised 5/24/12

Revised 2/28/13

### 0165.2 - Special Meetings

Special meetings of the Board shall be public. (R.C. 121.22)

A. Special meetings shall be called by the President or the Treasurer or
by two (2) members of the Board by serving a written notice of the time,
place, and purpose of such meeting upon each Board member at least two
(2) days in advance of the meeting. (R.C. 3313.16)

B. The order of business shall be as follows unless altered by the
presiding officer or a majority of those present and voting:

​1. Call to order

​2. Roll Call

​3. Pledge of Allegiance

​4. Recognition of visitors/Public Participation

​5. Transaction of business for which meeting was called

​6. Adjournment

Revised 1/23/01

### 0165.3 - Recess

The Board may adjourn or recess at anytime. The adjourned meeting, when
reconvened, shall take up its agenda at the point where the motion to
adjourn or recess was acted upon.

Revised 1/23/01

Revised 12/18/01

### 0166 - Executive Session

The Board reserves the right to meet privately in executive session
solely to discuss one (1) or more of the following issues exempted from
public sessions:

A. consideration of the appointment, employment, dismissal, discipline,
promotion, demotion, or compensation of a public employee, official, or
student

B. investigation of charges or complaints against a public employee,
official, or student unless such employee, official, or student requests
a public meeting; except that consideration of the discipline of a Board
member for conduct related to the performance of his/her duties or
his/her removal from office shall not be held in executive session

C. consideration of the purchase of property or sale of property at
competitive bidding, if premature disclosure or information would give
an unfair competitive or bargaining advantage to a person whose
personal, private interest is adverse to the general public interest

D. discussion, with the Board's legal counsel, of disputes involving the
Board that are the subject of pending or imminent court action

E. preparation for conduct or review of negotiations or bargaining
sessions with public employees concerning their compensation or other
terms and conditions of employment

F. matters required to be kept confidential by Federal law or rules or
State Statutes

G. specialized details of security arrangements where disclosure might
reveal information that could be used for the purpose of committing, or
avoiding prosecution for a violation of law

No official action may be taken in executive session. (R.C. 121.22)

Collective bargaining meetings between public employers and employee
organizations are private and not subject to R.C. 121.22. (R.C. 4117.21)

An executive session will be held only at a regular or special meeting.
After the meeting is convened, any member may make a motion for an
executive session, stating therewith the purpose of the session by
citing one or more of the reasons set forth above. If the session is to
discuss a personnel matter listed in paragraph A above, the particular
subject for which the session has been called must be identified in the
motion. The motion does not need to name the person. Upon receiving a
second to the motion and a majority vote of those present and voting,
the chairperson shall declare the Board in executive session.

Revised 8/10/93

0167

### Voting

All motions shall require for adoption a majority vote of those present
and voting, except as provided by statute, these bylaws, or
parliamentary authority. Upon the demand of any member of the Board, the
vote shall be recorded by roll call.

Pursuant to R.C. 121.22, a motion to go into executive session requires
a majority vote of a quorum and must be adopted by roll call vote.

In situations in which a specific number of affirmative votes are
required and abstentions have been recorded, the motion shall fail if
the specified number of affirmative votes have not been cast. In
situations in which a tie vote occurs and abstentions have been
recorded, the motion shall fail for lack of a majority.

All actions requiring a vote can be conducted by voice vote or show of
hands, unless a roll-call vote is requested or required. A Board member
must be physically present at the meeting to vote. Each vote and
abstention shall be recorded. Proxy voting is prohibited. R.C. 3313.18

**Number Needed**

**R.C. Reference**

**Item**

Declaring it necessary to issue bonds

Majority,Full Board\*

3313.18

Declaration by remaining members, that reasons for a member's absence
for ninety (90) days are insufficient to continue membership

2/3, Full Board

3313.11

Filling a vacant Board seat

Majority, Remaining Members

3313.11

**Number Needed**

**R.C. Reference**

**Item**

Purchase or sell real estate

Majority, Full Board

3313.18

Appointment of any employee

Majority, Full Board

3313.18

Elect or appoint an officer

Majority, Full Board

3313.18

Pay any debt or claim

Majority, Full Board

3313.18

Adopt textbook

Majority, Full Board

3313.18

Dispense with resolution authorizing purchase or sale of personal
property, appointment of employees, etc., if annual appropriation
resolution has been adopted by a majority of full membership

Majority, Full Board

3313.18

Removal of the Treasurer or Pro Tempore at any time for cause

2/3, Full Board\*

3313.23

Appointment of Treasurer Pro Tempore

Majority, Full Board

3313.23

Determination that Treasurer's incapacity is removed

Majority, Full Board

3313.23

**Number Needed**

**R.C. Reference**

**Item**

Affirm, reverse, vacate or modify an order of student expulsion;
reinstate a student

Majority, Full Board

3313.66(E)

Appointment of Superintendent Pro Tempore

Majority, Full Board

3319.011

Removal of Superintendent Pro Tempore at any time for cause

2/3, Full Board\*

3319.011

Reemployment of a teacher whom the Superintendent refuses to recommend

3/4, Full Board

3319.07

Reemployment of an other administrator whom the Superintendent refuses
to nominate

3/4, Full Board

3319.02

Reemployment of a teacher after considering two nominations by the
Educational Service Center Superintendent

Majority, Full Board

3319.07

Reemployment of an other administrator whom the Educational Service
Center Superintendent refuses to nominate

3/4, Full Board\*

3319.02

**Number Needed**

**R.C. Reference**

**Item**

Selection of textbooks

Majority, Full Board

3329.08

Change, revision, or substitution of textbooks during four-year period
after adoption

4/5, Full Board

3329.08

Transfers of funds in certain cases

2/3, Full Board

5705.14

Resolution declaring the necessity for certain transfers of funds

Majority, Full Board

5705.16

Levying a tax outside 10-mill limitation (not emergency)

2/3, Full Board

5705.21

Rejection of findings and recommendations of fact-finding panel by Board
or employee organization under statutory impasse resolution procedure

3/5, Full Board

4117.14(c)(6)

\*2/3 = 4 MEMBERS OF A FIVE-PERSON BOARD

Revised 10/11/90

Revised 1/23/01

Revised 12/18/01

Revised 6/28/11

### 0167.1 - Use of Electronic Mail

Since E-mail is a form of communication that could conflict with the
Sunshine Law, it will be used only for the purposes of communicating
messages between Board members or between a Board member and employee(s)
which do not involve deliberating or rendering a decision on matters
pending before the Board.

Under no circumstances shall Board members use E-mail to discuss among
themselves Board business that is only to be discussed in an open
meeting of the Board, is part of an executive session, or could be
considered an invasion of privacy if the message were to be monitored by
another party.

There should be no expectation of privacy for any messages sent by
E-mail. Messages that have been deleted may still be accessible on the
hard drive, if the space has not been occupied by other messages.
Messages, deleted or otherwise, may be subject to disclosure under the
Public Records Act, unless an exemption would apply.

Adopted 1/12/99

Revised 1/23/01

### 0168 - Minutes

The Treasurer shall keep minutes of all Board meetings showing the time
and place, the members present, the subjects considered, the actions
taken, the vote of each member on roll call votes, and any other
information required to be shown in the minutes by law, which shall be
available to the public. (R.C. 121.22, 149.43, 3313.26) Board minutes
shall reflect the general subject matter of discussions in executive
session. (R.C. 121.22)

The Treasurer shall provide each Board member with a copy of the minutes
of the last meeting no later than seventy-two (72) hours before the next
regular meeting.

Video tape recordings made in accordance with Policy
[**9121**](po9121.md) of the Board of Education shall be preserved as
public documents of the Board.

The minutes of Board meetings shall be considered at the next succeeding
meeting where they shall be read (unless waived by law), corrected, and
approved. The approved minutes shall be signed by the Treasurer and the
President. The approved minutes shall be filed in the Treasurer's office
in a prescribed minute book as a permanent record of official Board
proceedings.

R.C. 149.43, 3313.26, 3315.07

Revised 1/12/99

### 0169 - Hearing of Citizens

Residents and employees of Springboro Community City School District
present at a meeting of the Board may address the Board in accordance
with the Board's rules. (R.C. 3315.07(C)(2))

Revised 6/28/05

### 0169.1 - Public Participation at Board Meetings

The Board of Education recognizes the value to school governance of
resident and employee comment on educational issues and the importance
of encouraging members of the employees and residents to express
themselves on school matters of community interest.

Consistent with Board Policy 0165.1, item number C.3.5., there shall be
a period of public participation at the beginning of the meeting set
aside for residents and employees who wish to make a presentation to the
Board on a prearranged basis. A maximum of thirty (30) minutes of
resident and employee participation will be permitted at that time,
unless a longer period is agreed upon by the Board. The Board President
shall have the authority to limit the speaking time per person to a
maximum of five (5) minutes or less. Requests for a speaking time during
this period shall be made to the Superintendent at least three (3) days
prior to the meeting. This requirement may be waived by the President or
the Superintendent at their discretion.

Consistent with Board Policy 0165.1, item number C.3.5., citizens may
also be recognized by the President to present their opinions, comments,
and related information. All such participation must be related to the
Board work session agenda items at the Board meeting. The speaking time
of individuals may be restricted by the President to the extent
necessary to hear the widest range of views, avoid redundancy, and
assure that the agenda is completed by a reasonable hour.

The following procedure shall be in effect whenever large delegations of
residents or employees attend a Board meeting requesting to be heard on
an issue being considered or discussed:

A. Statement of Board Position

Following discussion of the subject by the Board, the Board President
may briefly describe the situation and characterize the Board's position
regarding it, if the Board has in fact taken a position. If no official
action has been taken, the President may so state and may summarize
briefly the alternatives available to the Board, and implications of
each.

B. Board to Answer Questions

After the speakers for and against the issue have been heard, the
President shall indicate that questions pertaining directly to the issue
involved may be directed by the Board.

C. Action by the Board

Upon a ruling by the President to close the public discussion, the Board
may proceed with its deliberations and take whatever action it deems
advisable.

In the event that so much public input is anticipated that sufficient
time is not available during a given Board meeting, the Board may elect
to set a special single purpose meeting to hear public comment.

Participants must be recognized by the presiding officer and must
preface their comments by an announcement of their name, address, and
group affiliation if appropriate.

The presiding officer may:

A. interrupt, warn, or terminate a participant's statement when the
statement is too lengthy, personally directed, abusive, obscene, or
irrelevant;

B. request any individual to leave the meeting when that person does not
observe reasonable decorum;

C. request the assistance of law enforcement officers in the removal of
a disorderly person when that person's conduct interferes with the
orderly progress of the meeting;

D. call for a recess or an adjournment to another time when the lack of
public decorum so interferes with the orderly conduct of the meeting as
to warrant such action;

E. waive these rules with the approval of the Board when necessary for
the protection of privacy or the efficient administration of the Board's
business.

R.C. 3313.20, 3315.07 (C)(2)

Revised 1/12/99

Revised 1/23/01

Revised 10/8/02

Revised 6/28/05

Revised 8/12/08

Revised 4/26/11

Revised 6/28/11

Revised 5/24/12
