1100 - DISTRICT ORGANIZATION
============================

The organization of this District shall be designed to meet the
objectives set by the Board of Education, ensure clean lines of
authority, and defined each position with clarity. Lines of direct
authority will be those approved by the Board and shown on the District
Organization Chart in Policy [**1101**](po1101.htm).

The Superintendent shall be the chief executive officer of the school
district. The Superintendent shall define and recommend those
administrative positions required to implement the educational system
and program of learning established by the Board. In each case, the
Board will approve the broad purpose of the position in harmony with
state law and regulations. The assignment of duties of each position is
the responsibility of the Superintendent.

Responsibility and line of authority shall flow clearly from the
Superintendent on through the administrative staff to all personnel.
Conversely, personnel will be expected to refer matters requiring
administrative action to the administrator to whom they are responsible.
The administrator will refer such matters to the next higher
administrative level when necessary. Additionally, all personnel are
expected to keep the person to whom they are immediately responsible
informed of their activities by whatever means the person in charge
deems appropriate.

Additionally, lines of authority do not restrict in any way the
cooperative, sensible working together of all staff members at all
levels in order to develop the best possible school programs and
service. The established lines of authority represent direction of
authority and responsibility; when the staff is working together, the
lines represent avenues for a two-way flow of ideas to improve the
program and operations of the school system.

It shall be the responsibility of the Superintendent to determine the
need for and define operational requirements sufficient to ensure the
smooth functioning of the District. Maintenance of an efficient, skilled
operational staff is essential to the effective performance of the
system.

It is the Board's intent to maintain an operational and technical staff
with a high level of competence.

On occasion, the Superintendent may find it necessary to recommend to
the Board the employment of specialists or consultants to maintain or
support programs implemented by the District in areas requiring
specialized knowledge. These positions will be considered by the Board
on the merits of their potential contribution to the School District and
the specific conditions of the stated contract or agreement.

Revised 1/10/89\
 Revised 3/19/91
