1230 - SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS
================================

The Superintendent of Schools shall strive to achieve District goals for
students by providing educational direction and supervision to the
professional staff and classified staff and by acting as a proper role
model for staff and students both in the school and outside the
District. The Superintendent is directly responsible to the Board of
Education for the performance of the following duties and
responsibilities:

A. keep the Board informed with respect to matters affecting school
operations and provide the Board with information, guidance, and support
necessary to formulate policy

B. provide that all aspects of District operations comply with State and
Federal laws and regulations as well as Board contracts and policies

C. provide leadership for the development, implementation, and
assessment of the Strategic Plan's vision, mission, and initiatives

D. establish and implement a written educational plan for the schools of
the District consistent with the educational goals adopted by the Board

E. provide for the recruitment, selection, and development of District
staff in the attainment of the District's goals

F. recommend changes in staffing and instructional program based on
analysis of staff and student performance assessment data

G. recommend innovations and strategies to continually improve the
educational and operational practices of the District

H. promote the efficient and effective use of District resources in the
daily operations of the schools

I. work constructively with the Board, administrative leadership team,
and District staff in pursuit of established educational and operational
goals and objectives

J. communicate effectively with parents, citizens, and community groups;
secure their input, involvement, and support for school programs and
initiatives

K. maintain the highest standards of personal conduct, professional
practice, administrative effectiveness, and financial responsibility of
the District

L. perform such other duties as the Board may direct or assign

Revised 1/10/89\
 Revised 4/23/93\
 Revised 6/26/12
