1240 - EVALUATION OF THE SUPERINTENDENT
=======================================

The Board of Education believes it is essential that it evaluate the
Superintendent's performance periodically in order to assist both the
Board and the Superintendent in the proper discharge of their
responsibilities and to enable the Board to provide the District with
the best possible leadership.

The Board shall periodically, but not less than every year and before
March 1st, evaluate the performance of the Superintendent. Such
evaluation shall include an assessment of:

A. the progress toward the educational goals of the District;

B. performance based on expectations prescribed in the job description;

C. the working relationship between the Board and the Superintendent;

D. the Board's own effectiveness in providing direction to the
Superintendent;

E. progress towards other specific Board goals and initiatives.

Such assessments will be based on defined quality expectations developed
by the Board for each criteria being assessed.

The Board and the Superintendent, jointly, shall, at the outset of each
evaluation, determine the method by which the evaluation shall be
conducted and the evaluation model to be used. Such method may include:

A. the Superintendent's own self-analysis of the current status of the
District

B. the Superintendent's self-assessment of his/her performance

C. a compilation of assessments on a prepared standard form by
individual Board members, which shall then be reviewed jointly by the
Board and Superintendent

D. evaluation interviews between the Board and Superintendent during
which no other business is discussed

E. recommendations/commendations regarding the Superintendent's job
performance

As an outcome of the evaluation of the Superintendent's performance, the
Board should be prepared to judge the advisability of retention of the
Superintendent and be prepared to:

A. determine the Superintendent's salary;

B. identify strengths and weaknesses in the operation of the District
and determine means by which weaknesses can be reduced and strengths are
maintained;

C. improve its own performance as the public body ultimately charged
with the educational responsibility of this District.

R.C. 3319.01

Revised 3/18/88\
 Revised 12/16/93\
 Revised 6/26/12
