1240.01 - NON-REEMPLOYMENT OF SUPERINTENDENT
============================================

The Board of Education has an obligation to the citizens of this
District to employ the professional leadership best trained and equipped
to meet the educational needs of their children. It shall meet that
obligation by retaining only the best qualified person as Superintendent
of Schools for this District.

If the services of the Superintendent are found on the basis of one or
more evaluations to be unsatisfactory to the Board, s/he shall be
notified by the Treasurer and given an opportunity to correct the
conditions.

If the Board determines not to renew the Superintendent's contract, the
Superintendent shall be notified in writing by the Treasurer, as
approved by the Board, of its intent, within the time frame required by
State Statute, that his/her services will not be renewed.

The contract of the Superintendent may be terminated during its term in
accordance with statutory procedures.

### Reporting Professional Misconduct

Consistent with Policy [**8141**](po8141.html) and State law, the Board
will file a report to the Ohio Department of Education, on forms
provided for that purpose, matters of professional misconduct on the
part of the Superintendent, as a licensed professional, including a
conviction of the Superintendent of certain enumerated crimes and/or
conduct which is determined to be unbecoming to the teaching profession.
Reports of any investigation regarding whether or not the Superintendent
has committed an act or offense for which the Board is required to make
a report to the Ohio Department of Education shall be kept in the
personnel file of the Superintendent. Should the Ohio Department of
Education determine that the results of that investigation do not
warrant initiating an action suspending, revoking, or otherwise limiting
the Superintendent's license, the report(s) of any investigation will be
moved to a separate public file.

R.C. 3319.01, 3319.16

Revised 3/18/88\
 Revised 10/9/07
