---
layout: default
title: 1310 - EMPLOYMENT OF THE TREASURER
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education shall seek a person both capable and licensed to
fill the position of Treasurer, whenever that position may be vacant.
The Board shall appoint a Treasurer as chief fiscal officer and fix
his/her salary and term of office which shall be not more than five (5)
year.

All persons considered for the position of Treasurer shall provide
evidence of their training and experience in the fields of government
accounting, State and Federal laws related to school district budgeting
and financing, financial report preparation, and budget and accounting
management as required by statute and the standards of the State Board
of Education. The Board of Education shall define a procedure for
selection when a vacancy exists.

Final selection shall be made by the Board. Any candidate's misstatement
of fact material to his/her qualifications for employment or the
determination of his/her salary shall be considered to constitute
grounds for dismissal.

Following appointment to the position, the person selected for the
position of Treasurer may be required to take a physical examination and
a psychiatric examination reasonably related to the duties s/he will be
required to perform. The cost of such examination shall be paid by the
District.

The Treasurer so appointed shall devote himself/herself exclusively to
the duties of his/her office and maintain his/her principal residence
within the District, unless otherwise approved by the Board.

Prior to employment, the candidate selected must also pass a background
check performed by the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation and/or the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

R.C. 2909.34, 3301.074, 3313.22, 3313.24, 3313.25\
 A.C. 3301-5-01

Revised 1/12/99\
 Revised 12/12/06\
 Revised 9/11/07\
 Revised 2/14/13
