1530 - EVALUATION OF ADMINISTRATORS
===================================

### Application

This policy shall apply to all persons employed by the Board of
Education in a position requiring licensure as an administrator. This
definition excludes school counselors but includes professional pupil
services personnel and administrative specialists (or equivalent
positions) who spend less than fifty percent (50%) of their time
teaching or otherwise working directly in the presence of students.

This policy shall also apply to all persons employed in positions not
requiring administrative licensure, but whose job duties enable them to
be considered either a "supervisor" or "management level employee" as
defined in R.C. 4117.01.

### Procedures

### General Requirements

The Superintendent shall implement a program of regular evaluation for
all administrative personnel which includes the following elements:

A. The evaluation process shall fairly attempt to measure the
administrator's effectiveness in performing the duties set forth in
his/her job description.

B. A written evaluation document shall be produced for each evaluation.
Each administrator shall be evaluated at least once annually.

C. The evaluation shall be conducted by the Superintendent or his/her
designee (such designation may be oral or in writing) prior to the
Board's consideration of contract renewal or non-renewal, the
Superintendent shall review the results of the evaluation process with
the Board.

### Specific Requirements for Building Principals

In addition to the above, procedures for the evaluation of District
building principals and assistant principals will be based upon
comparable standards as set forth in the policy adopted by the Board for
the evaluation of teachers pursuant to R.C. 3319.111, but tailored to
address the duties and responsibilities of building principals and the
environment in which they work. The Superintendent is authorized to
develop administrative guidelines for the procedural and substantive
evaluation of building principals consistent with this policy and State
law.

### Evaluation Instruments

The Superintendent may, in his/her discretion, utilize a single
evaluation instrument for all administrative positions, instruments
particularized for each position, or a combination of both types of
instruments.

Evaluation instruments shall be developed and/or utilized by the
Superintendent as s/he may determine in his/her best professional
judgment and may be modified from time-to-time by the Superintendent in
the exercise of such professional judgment. Specific Board approval of
the evaluation instruments or modifications to such instruments shall
not be required.

### Basis for Evaluation

Each evaluation shall fairly attempt to measure the administrator's
effectiveness in performing the duties of his/her job description.

Evaluations may be based upon the direct formal observations of the
administrator, but may also consider informal or incidental observations
and other relevant information which is within the knowledge of or
brought to the attention of the evaluator. Out-of-school conduct may be
considered if such conduct impairs the individual's effectiveness as an
administrator or as a role model for students and staff.

### Observations and Conferences

A pre-evaluation conference may be conducted if deemed necessary or
advisable by the evaluator.

Formal observations may be made of the administrator, either announced
or unannounced, but shall not be a required element of the evaluation
process. Whether formal observations are appropriate to the position
shall be determined by the evaluator on a case-by-case basis.

Following any formal observations and/or gathering of other evaluative
data, and before finalizing any evaluation report, the evaluator shall
arrange a post-evaluation conference at which the results of the
evaluation process are discussed with the administrator. To the extent
that any weaknesses or deficiencies have been identified in the
evaluation process, the evaluator shall offer suggestions for
improvement. Identified weaknesses and suggestions for improvement shall
be identified in the evaluation report, but shall not be a required
element of any evaluation.

A final written evaluation report shall be produced in a manner deemed
appropriate by the evaluator, in consultation with the administrator.
This evaluation report may be combined with the evaluation instruments,
or may be a separate document. The evaluation report shall be signed and
dated by the administrator and the evaluator at the conclusion of the
post-evaluation conference. The signature of the administrator shall not
necessarily indicate that s/he agrees with the evaluator's comments or
conclusions, but only that s/he has been made aware of such comments or
conclusions. A copy of the evaluation report shall be provided to the
administrator.

The final evaluation report for an administrator in the last year of
his/her contract shall include the Superintendent's intended
recommendation to the Board concerning the renewal or non-renewal of the
contract.

### Number and Timing of Evaluations

A.**Administrator Not in Final Year of Contract**\
 \
 An administrator not in the final year of his/her contract shall be
evaluated at least once during the school year. A written copy of the
evaluation report shall be provided to the administrator no later than
the end of the administrator's contract year as defined by the
administrator's annual salary notice.

B. **Administrator in Final Year of Contract**

An administrator whose contract is due to expire at the conclusion of
the current school year shall have at least one (1) preliminary
evaluation and one (1) final evaluation during such year. A written copy
of the preliminary evaluation report shall be provided to the
administrator at least sixty (60) days prior to any Board action on the
renewal or non-renewal of the contract. A written copy of the final
evaluation report shall be provided to the administrator at least five
(5) days prior to any Board action on the renewal or non-renewal of the
contract.

### Meeting with Board

Before taking action to renew or nonrenew the contract of an assistant
superintendent, principal, assistant principal, or other administrator
under this section and prior to the last day of March of the year in
which such employee's contract expires, the board shall notify each such
employee of the date that the contract expires and that the employee may
request a meeting with the board. Upon request by such an employee, the
board shall grant the employee a meeting in executive session. In that
meeting, the board shall discuss its reasons for considering renewal or
nonrenewal of the contract. The employee shall be permitted to have a
representative, chosen by the employee, present at the meeting.

### Written Rebuttal

The administrator may, at any time following the receipt of an
evaluation report, submit a written rebuttal, not to exceed three (3)
pages in length, which shall be promptly attached to the evaluation
report and any copies of the evaluation report which are retained in the
District's records or submitted to the Board for its consideration.

### Legal Effect

This policy and the procedures contained herein shall not create a legal
expectancy of continued employment or a property interest in continued
employment, and shall not be deemed a part of any individual
administrator's contract or otherwise a contractual obligation of the
Board.

To the extent that any of the procedures contained herein exceed the
requirements of Ohio law, such procedures shall not be construed as a
pre-condition to contract non-renewal and shall not prevent the Board
from proceeding with a contract non-renewal which otherwise satisfies
the minimum requirements of Ohio law.

R.C. 3319.02, 3319.111, 3319.112, 4117.01

Adopted 3/28/01\
 Revised 8/14/12
