1540 - SUSPENSION OF ADMINISTRATIVE CONTRACTS
=============================================

Pursuant to R.C. 3319.171, when the Board determines that it is
necessary, the contract of any administrator, other administrator or
supervisor, entered into pursuant to R.C. 3319.02, may be suspended for,
including but not limited to, the following reasons:

A. declining enrollment of students in the district;

B. the return of administrators from board approved leaves of absence;

C. a change in the financial condition of the school district;

D. any other financial reasons that the board, in its sole discretion,
finds warrants a reduction in force;

E. loss of funding for a particular program, project or grant;

F. changes in the curriculum or academic program of the school district;

G. the reorganization of the management structure of the school
district;

H. territorial changes affecting the school district;

I. those actions necessitated or mandated by virtue of the No Child Left
Behind Act, also known as the Elementary and Secondary Education Act,
and any State or Federal Regulation relating to that Act.

In determining the order in which administrative contracts will be
suspended, the board may consider the following factors;

A. performance of the administrator, including but not limited to job
evaluations;

B. experience, qualifications and/or licensure/certification of the
administrator;

C. staffing and personnel needs of the board of education;

D. present administrative and/or job assignment;

E. any other factor the board determines are relevant.

No one of the listed factors are dispositive of the determination of the
order of suspension.

All employees whose contracts are suspended pursuant to this policy
shall be placed on a recall list for reemployment for a period of up to
twelve (12) months, beginning with the effective date of the suspension.
If a vacancy occurs, all of the administrators on the recall list shall
be notified, by certified mail, of said vacancy. The Board will have
fulfilled its notice requirements if the notice is sent to the last
address left by the administrator. Unclaimed, refused or undelivered
notices shall constitute a refusal of the vacancy. The administrator is
responsible for keeping the Board apprised of the administrator's most
current address. The administrators must, within seven days of the
receipt of the notice, notify the board of the administrator's interest
in the vacancy. Failure to notify the board within the stated time
period shall result in the removal of the administrator from the recall
list, and shall be deemed a waiver of any future notices. Upon receipt
of the notices from the responding administrators, the board shall
recall the most qualified candidate. The most qualified candidate shall
be determined in the sole discretion of the board. If an administrator
refuses to accept an offered vacancy, the administrator shall be removed
from the recall list and any obligation of the Board under this policy
shall cease.

In the event of an administrative reduction in force, administrators who
have a continuing contract with the school district may be offered a
certified position, if a vacancy exists or is created, provided they
meet the qualifications required to fill the vacancy. The board, in its
sole discretion, will determine whether the administrator is qualified
to fill the vacancy.

Adopted 3/28/01\
 Revised 4/27/04\
 Revised 10/9/12
