1520 - EMPLOYMENT OF ADMINISTRATORS
===================================

The Board of Education recognizes that it is vital to the successful
operation of the District that administrative positions created by the
Board be filled with highly qualified and competent personnel.

Such approval shall be given only to those candidates recommended by the
Superintendent.

The Board shall approve the employment, determine the compensation, and
establish the term of said employment for each administrator employed by
the Board. Individuals may be employed as administrators pursuant to a
limited contract for a term not to exceed three (3) years, unless the
individual has been employed by the Board as an administrator in the
District for three (3) or more years, in which case his/her term of the
contract shall be for not more than five (5) years and, unless the
Superintendent recommends otherwise, not less than two (2) years. If,
however, the Superintendent so recommends, the term of the contract of
an individual who has been employed as an administrator in the District
for three (3) years or more may be one year. All subsequent contracts
granted to such individual must be for a term of not less than two (2)
years and more than five (5) years.

Any person employed as an assistant superintendent, principal, assistant
principal, or other administrator shall possess a valid
certificate/license issued pursuant to Ohio law and shall file a copy of
his/her certificate/license with the District.

To the extent permitted by law, the Board may request the State Board of
Education to issue a one (1) year temporary educator license to a
candidate recommended by the Superintendent for an administrative
position, provided the candidate is of good moral character and has
earned at least a baccalaureate degree in a field related to finance or
administration from an accredited institution of higher learning or has
at least five (5) years of recent work experience in education,
management, or administration.

Relatives of Board members may be employed by the Board, provided the
member of the Board does not participate in any way in the discussion or
vote on the employment when such a conflict of interest is involved.

An individual who is related to [a] staff member[s] may be employed as
an administrator by the Board provided the administrator is not placed
in a position in which s/he will supervise directly the staff member to
whom s/he is related.

Applications for employment as an administrator will not be accepted
from any current Board member. If a Board member wishes to apply for a
position on the administrative staff, his/her resignation must be
accepted by the Board prior to submitting an application.

The employment of administrative staff members prior to approval by the
Board is authorized when their employment is required to maintain
continuity in the educational program. Employment shall be recommended
to the Board at the next regular meeting.

Prior to employment, the candidate selected must also pass a background
check performed by the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation and/or the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

The Superintendent may recommend and the Board may approve the
reemployment of an administrative staff member at any regular or special
meeting held during the period beginning on the first day of January of
the calendar year immediately preceding the year of expiration of the
employment contract and ending on the last day of March in the year the
employment contract expires.

The Board may, by a three-fourth's (3/4's) majority vote of its full
membership, reemploy an assistant superintendent, principal, assistant
principal, or other administrator whom the Superintendent refuses to
nominate. If need be, and to the extent permitted by law, the Board may
request the State Board of Education to issue a one (1) year temporary
educator license to an administrator whom the Superintendent has refused
to nominate for reemployment in an administrative position, provided the
candidate is of good moral character and has earned at least a
baccalaureate degree in a field related to finance or administration
from an accredited institution of higher learning or has at least five
(5) years of recent work experience in education, management, or
administration.

Before taking action to renew or non-renew the contract of any
administrator and prior to the last day of March of the year in which
the administrator's contract expires, the Board shall notify each such
administrator of the date his/her contract expires and inform the
administrator that s/he may request a meeting with the Board to discuss
its reasons for considering renewal or non-renewal of his/her contract.
Upon the request of the administrator, the Board shall meet with him/her
in executive session. The administrator shall be permitted to have a
representative of his/her choice present at that meeting.

If the Board fails to provide the evaluations as required by Board
Policy [**1530**](po1530.htm) or if the Board fails to provide,
following the request of the administrator, a meeting for the purpose of
discussing the Board's reasons for considering renewal or non-renewal of
the administrator's contract, then the administrator shall be
automatically reemployed at the same salary plus any increments that may
be authorized by the Board, and the term of reemployment shall be one
(1) year, unless the individual has been employed as an administrator by
the District for three (3) years or more in which case the reemployment
shall be for a term of two (2) years.

Furthermore, an administrator shall be deemed reemployed upon expiration
of his/her contract term unless the administrator notifies the Board to
the contrary on or before the first day of June, or unless the Board
either reemploys the administrator for a succeeding term or gives
written notice of its intent not to reemploy the administrator on or
before the last day of March in the year in which said contract expires.
In such instances, the reemployment shall be at the same salary plus any
increments that may be authorized by the Board, and the term of
reemployment shall be one (1) year, unless the individual has been
employed as an administrator by the District for three (3) years or more
in which case the reemployment shall be for a term of two (2) years.

Any administrator's intentional misstatement of fact material to
qualifications for employment or reemployment or to the determination of
salary shall be considered by this Board to constitute grounds for
dismissal.

All administrators shall become familiar with the policies of the Board
and other such guidelines, regulations, memoranda, bulletins, and
handbooks that pertain to their duties in the District. Any
administrator employed by the Board who shall be guilty of any willful
violation of the policies of the Board shall be guilty of gross
insubordination and shall be subject to dismissal or such lesser penalty
as the Board may prescribe.

Except by mutual agreement of the parties thereto, no administrator
shall be transferred during the term of his/her contract to a position
of lesser responsibility. Furthermore, no contract may be terminated or
suspended except in accordance with State law.

R.C. 2909.34, 3319.02, 3319.16, 3319.17, 3319.171

Adopted 3/28/01\
 Revised 8/23/05\
 Revised 8/23/05\
 Revised 1/23/07\
 Revised 2/14/13
