---
layout: default
title: ### 1613 - STUDENT SUPERVISION AND WELFARE
---

{{ page.title }}
================

Administrators shall maintain a standard of care for the supervision,
control, and protection of students commensurate with their assigned
duties and responsibilities and are expected to establish and maintain
professional staff/student boundaries that are consistent with their
legal, professional and ethical duty of care for students.

The Superintendent shall maintain and enforce the following standards:

A. Each administrator shall report immediately to the Business Manager
any accident, safety hazard, or other potentially harmful condition or
situation s/he detects.

B. Each administrator shall immediately report to the Superintendent any
knowledge of threats or violence by students.

C. An administrator shall not send students on any personal errands.

D. An administrator shall not associate or fraternize with students at
any time in a manner that may give the appearance of impropriety,
including, but not limited to, the creation or participation in any
situation or activity that could be considered abusive or sexually
suggestive or involve harmful substances such as illegal drugs, alcohol
or tobacco. Any sexual or other inappropriate conduct with a student by
any administrator will subject the offender to potential criminal
prosecution and disciplinary action by the Board up to and including
termination of employment.

E. If a student approaches an administrator to seek advice or to ask
questions regarding a personal problem related to sexual behavior,
substance abuse, mental or physical health, and/or family relationships,
etc., the administrator may attempt to assist the student by
facilitating contact with certified or licensed individuals in the
District or community who specialize in the assessment, diagnosis, and
treatment of the student's stated problem. However, under no
circumstances should an administrator attempt, unless properly licensed
and authorized to do so, to counsel, assess, diagnose, or treat the
student's problem or behavior, nor should such administrator
inappropriately disclose personally identifiable information concerning
the student to third persons not specifically authorized by law.

F. An administrator shall not transport students in a private vehicle
without the approval of the Superintendent.

G. A student shall not be required to perform work or services that may
be detrimental to his/her health.

H. Administrators shall only engage in electronic communication with
students via email, texting, social media and/or online networking
media, such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, MySpace, Skype, blogs, etc.,
when such communication is directly related to curricular matters or
co-curricular/extracurricular events or activities with prior approval
of the principal.

I. Administrators are prohibited from electronically transmitting any
personally identifiable image of a student(s), including video,
photographs, streaming video, etc. via email, text message, or through
the use of social media and/or online networking media, such as
Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, MySpace, Skype, blogs, etc., unless such
transmission has been made as part of a pre-approved curricular matter
or co-curricular/extracurricular event or activity such as a
school-sponsored publication or production in accordance with Policy
[**5722**](po5722.md).

Since most information concerning a child in school, other than
directory information described in Policy [**8330**](po8330.md), is
confidential under Federal and State laws, any administrator who shares
confidential information with another person not authorized to receive
the information may be subject to discipline and/or civil liability.
This includes, but is not limited to, information concerning
assessments, grades, behavior, family background, and alleged child
abuse.

Pursuant to the laws of the State and Board Policy
[**8462**](po8462.md), each administrator shall report to the proper
legal authorities, immediately, any sign of suspected child abuse or
neglect.

R.C. 2907.03

Adopted 6/28/11
