---
layout: default
title: 2131 - EDUCATIONAL GOALS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

### - Development of Skills and Knowledge -

### DEVELOP SKILLS IN READING, WRITING, SPEAKING, AND LISTENING

A. Develop ability to communicate ideas and feelings effectively.

B. Develop skills in oral and written English.

### GAIN A GENERAL EDUCATION

A. Develop background and skills in the use of numbers, natural
sciences, mathematics, and social sciences.

B. Develop a fund of information and concepts.

C. Develop special interests and abilities.

### LEARN HOW TO EXAMINE AND USE INFORMATION

A. Develop ability to examine information constructively and creatively.

B. Develop ability to use scientific methods.

C. Develop reasoning abilities.

D. Develop skills to think and proceed logically.

### LEARN HOW TO BE A GOOD MANAGER OF MONEY, PROPERTY, AND RESOURCES

A. Develop an understanding of economic principles and responsibilities.

B. Develop ability and understanding in personal buying, selling, and
investment.

C. Develop skills in management of natural and human resources and of
one's environment.

### LEARN ABOUT AND TRY TO UNDERSTAND THE CHANGES THAT TAKE PLACE IN THE WORLD

A. Develop ability to adjust to the changing demands of society.

B. Develop an awareness and the ability to adjust to a changing world
and its problems.

C. Develop understanding of the past, identify with the present, and the
ability to meet the future.

### UNDERSTAND AND PRACTICE THE SKILLS OF FAMILY LIVING

A. Develop understanding and appreciation of the principles of living in
the family group.

B. Develop attitudes leading to acceptance of responsibilities as family
members.

C. Develop an awareness of future family responsibilities and
achievement of skills in preparing to accept them.

### GAIN INFORMATION NEEDED TO MAKE JOB SELECTIONS

A. Promote self-understanding and self-direction in relation to
student's occupational interests.

B. Develop the ability to use information and counseling services
related to the selection of a job.

C. Develop a knowledge of specific information about a particular
vocation.

### PRACTICE AND UNDERSTAND THE IDEALS OF HEALTH AND SAFETY

A. Establish an effective individual physical fitness program.

B. Develop an understanding of good physical and mental health and well
being.

C. Establish sound personal health habits and information.

D. Develop a concern for public health and safety.

### APPRECIATE CULTURE AND BEAUTY IN THE WORLD

A. Develop abilities for effective expression of ideas and cultural
appreciation (fine arts).

B. Cultivate appreciation for beauty in various forms.

C. Develop creative self-expression through various media (art, music,
writing, etc.).

D. Develop special talents in music, art, literature, and foreign
languages.

### DEVELOP SKILLS TO ENTER A SPECIFIC FIELD OF WORK

A. Develop abilities and skills needed for immediate or future
employment.

B. Develop an awareness of opportunities and requirements related to a
specific field of work.

C. Develop an appreciation of good workmanship.

### LEARN HOW TO USE LEISURE TIME

A. Develop ability to use leisure time productively.

B. Develop a positive attitude toward participation in a range of
leisure time activities -- physical, intellectual, and creative.

C. Develop appreciation and interests which will lead to wise and
enjoyable use of leisure time.

### - Development of Personal and Social Values -

### DEVELOP GOOD CHARACTER AND SELF-RESPECT

A. Develop moral responsibility and a sound ethical and moral behavior.

B. Develop the student's capacity to discipline himself/herself to work,
study, and play constructively.

C. Develop a moral and ethical sense of values, goals, and processes of
free society.

D. Develop standards of personal character and ideas.

### LEARN TO RESPECT AND GET ALONG WITH PEOPLE WITH WHOM WE WORK AND LIVE

A. Develop appreciation and respect for the worth and dignity of
individuals.

B. Develop respect for individual worth and understanding of minority
opinions and acceptance of majority decisions.

C. Develop a cooperative attitude toward living and working with others.

### DEVELOP PRIDE IN WORK AND A FEELING OF SELF-WORTH

A. Develop a feeling of student pride in his/her achievements and
progress.

B. Develop self-understanding and self-awareness.

C. Develop the student's feeling of positive self-worth, security, and
self-assurance.

### LEARN HOW TO RESPECT AND GET ALONG WITH PEOPLE WHO THINK, DRESS, AND ACT DIFFERENTLY

A. Develop an appreciation for and an understanding of other people and
other cultures.

B. Develop an understanding of political, economic, and social patterns
of the rest of the world.

C. Develop awareness of the interdependence of races, creeds, nations,
and cultures.

D. Develop an awareness of the processes of group relationships.

### DEVELOP A DESIRE FOR LEARNING NOW AND IN THE FUTURE

A. Develop intellectual curiosity and eagerness for lifelong learning.

B. Develop a positive attitude toward learning.

C. Develop a positive attitude toward continuing independent education.

### LEARN HOW TO BE A GOOD CITIZEN

A. Develop an awareness of civic rights and responsibilities.

B. Develop attitudes for productive citizenship in a democracy.

C. Develop an attitude of respect for personal and public property.

D. Develop an understanding of the obligations and responsibilities of
citizenship.

### UNDERSTAND AND PRACTICE DEMOCRATIC IDEAS AND IDEALS

A. Develop loyalty to American democratic ideals.

B. Develop patriotism and loyalty to ideas of democracy.

C. Develop knowledge and appreciation of the rights and privileges in
our democracy.

D. Develop an understanding of our American heritage.

A.C. 3301-35-02
