---
layout: default
title: 2110 - STATEMENT OF PHILOSOPHY
---

{{ page.title }}
================

Education in the Springboro Community City School District is a dynamic,
interactive process involving students, faculty, parents, and the
community. This educational process uses the facilities and other
resources of the School District, but is not limited by them. In
particular, volunteerism by parents and community members is encouraged.

The central objective of the Springboro Community City School District
is to help young people maximize their potential for success as
responsible members of our democratic society, as participants in the
free enterprise system, and as individuals who have a strong and
positive sense of self-worth.

For the educational process to be effective, it must recognize and
adhere to certain philosophical principles. The Board of Education
believes that the following are particularly important:

A. The District should strive to provide the best possible education to
each student, using public and private funding in the most efficient
manner possible.

B. Education should be a continuous, progressive experience for each
student throughout all grade levels, with a minimum of transitional
difficulties.

C. The academic program must be fully relevant to contemporary society
while emphasizing a strong traditional foundation of learning and skill
development in the areas of mathematics, reading, and written and oral
expression.

D. Motivation of students should be accomplished by creating building
blocks of successful activity.

E. Opportunities should be provided for students of differing interests
and abilities to progress in different directions and at different
rates, without stigma or elitism.

F. Although the District's academic goals must have first priority, the
importance of athletic and extra-curricular activities in developing the
whole person must be recognized and supported by quality programs. The
productive relationship of academic, extra-curricular, and moral
development must be emphasized.

G. While it is recognized that each teacher brings to the classroom a
unique set of skills, knowledge, and attitudes, the activities in each
classroom must mesh with the overall educational program.

H. Programs in the schools must be periodically evaluated to maintain
their relevance, improve quality, and identify new educational needs and
opportunities.

I. The recruitment, evaluation, and training of administrators,
teachers, and other employees should have as its objective the
development of a District staff which satisfies the community's desire
for excellence.

J. The District should be energetic in its efforts to obtain public
input regarding its programs and activities, present, and contemplated.

K. Problem-solving within the District should be vigorous, constructive,
and fair to all concerned.

The philosophy described above provides a framework for the development
of Board-adopted policies and procedures, and for the operation of an
administrative system which mobilizes all the resources available to the
District.

A.C. 3301-35-01, 3301-35-02 (A)
