---
layout: default
title: 2111 - PARENT AND FAMILY INVOLVEMENT
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education recognizes and values parents and families as the
children's initial teachers and decision-makers in education. The Board
believes that student learning is more likely to occur when there is an
effective partnership between the school and the student's parents and
family. Such a partnership between the home and school and greater
involvement of parents in the education of their children generally
result in higher academic achievement, improved student behavior, and
reduced absenteeism.

In accordance with statute and the State Board of Education Parent and
Family Involvement Policy, use of the term "families" is used in order
to include children's primary caregivers, who are not their biological
parents, such as foster caregivers, grandparents, and other family
members.

In cultivating partnerships with families and communities, the Board is
committed to the following:

A. **Relationships with Families**

​1. cultivating school environments that are welcoming, supportive, and
student-centered; ^4^

​2. providing professional development for school staff that helps build
partnerships between families and schools;^2,3,\\ 4^

​3. providing family activities that relate to various cultures,
languages, practices, and customs, and bridge economic and cultural
barriers;^2,3^

​4. providing coordination, technical support and other support to
assist schools in planning and implementing family involvement
activities. ^3^

B. **Effective Communication**

​1. providing information to families to support the proper health,
safety, and well-being of their children;

​2. providing information to families about school policies, procedures,
programs, and activities; ^2,3,\\ 4^

​3. promoting regular and open communication between school personnel
and students' family members;^1,\\ 4^

​4. communicating with families in a format and language that is
understandable, to the extent practicable;^2,3^

​5. providing information and involving families in monitoring student
progress;^3^

​6. providing families with timely and meaningful information regarding
Ohio's academic standards, State and local assessments, and pertinent
legal provisions;^2,3,4^

​7. preparing families to be involved in meaningful discussions and
meetings with school staff.^2,3,4^

C. **Volunteer Opportunities**

​1. providing volunteer opportunities for families to support their
children's school activities;^1,3^

​2. supporting other needs, such as transportation and child care, to
enable families to participate in school-sponsored family involvement
events. ^3,4^

D. **Learning at Home**

working with families to establish learning goals and help their
children accomplish these goals;^1^

E. **Involving Families in Decision Making and Advocacy**

​1. involving families as partners in the process of school review and
continuous improvement planning;^3,4^

​2. involving families in the development of its District-wide parent
involvement policy and plan, and distributing the policy and plan to
families.^2,3,4^

F. **Collaborating with the Community**

​1. building constructive partnerships and connecting families with
community-based programs and other community resources;^2,3,4^

​2. coordinating and integrating family involvement programs and
activities with District initiatives and community-based programs that
encourage and support families' participation in their children's
education, growth, and development. ^2,3,4^

### Implementation

The Superintendent will provide for a comprehensive plan to engage
parents, families, and community members in a partnership in support of
each student's academic achievement, the District's continuous
improvement, and individual school improvement plans. The plan will
provide for annual evaluation, with the involvement of parents and
families, of the plan's effectiveness and identification of barriers to
participation by parents and families. Evaluation findings will be used
in the annual review of the Parent and Family Involvement policy and to
improve the effectiveness of the District plan.

^^

1Indicates R.C. 3312.472 State Requirements\
 ^2^Indicates IDEA 2004 Section 650 & 644 parent involvement
requirements\
 ^3^Indicates Title I Section 1118 parent involvement requirements\
 ^4^Indicates State Board Parent and Family Involvement Policy
recommendations

R.C. 3313.472

Adopted 4/23/93\
 Revised 4/26/11
