2270 - RELIGION IN THE SCHOOLS
==============================

Based on the First Amendment requirement for separation of the church
and state, no devotional exercises or displays of a religious character
will be permitted in the schools of this District in the conduct of any
program or activity under the jurisdiction of the Board. Instructional
activities shall not be permitted to advance or inhibit any particular
religion or religion generally.

An understanding of religions and their effects on civilization is
essential to the thorough education of young people and to their
appreciation of a pluralistic society. To that end, the curriculum shall
be developed to include, as appropriate to the various ages and
attainments of the students, instruction about the religions of the
world.

The Board acknowledges the degree to which a religious consciousness has
permeated the arts, literature, music, and issues of morality. It also
acknowledges that instructional and resource materials approved for use
in the District's schools frequently contain religious references or
concern moral issues that have traditionally been the focus of religious
concern. That such materials may be religious in nature shall not, by
itself, bar their use in the District. Teaching staff members using such
materials shall attempt to avoid using them to advance or inhibit
religion in any way.

The Board also recognizes that religious traditions vary in their
doctrines and perceptions held regarding the natural world and its
processes. The curriculum shall be chosen for its place in the education
of the students of this District, rather than for its conformity to
religious principles.

No student shall be exempted from taking a required course of study on
the grounds that the instruction therein interferes with the free
exercise of his/her religion.

U.S. Consti. Amend. 1\
 R.C. 3313.601

Revised 2/11/03
