---
layout: default
title: 2240 - CONTROVERSIAL ISSUES
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education believes that the consideration of controversial
issues such as but not limited to religion, sex education, drugs, etc.
has a legitimate place in the instructional program of the schools.

Properly introduced and conducted, the consideration of such issues can
help students learn to identify important issues, explore fully and
fairly all sides of an issue, weigh carefully the values and factors
involved, and develop techniques for formulating and evaluating
positions.

For purposes of this policy, a controversial issue is a topic on which
opposing points of view have been promulgated by responsible opinion
and/or likely to arouse both support and opposition in the community.

The Board will permit the introduction and proper educational use of
controversial issues provided that their use in the instructional
program:

A. is related to the instructional goals of the course of study and
level of maturity of the students;

B. does not tend to indoctrinate or persuade students to a particular
point of view;

C. encourages open-mindedness and is conducted in a spirit of scholarly
inquiry.

Controversial issues related to the program may be initiated by the
students themselves provided they are presented in the ordinary course
of classroom instruction and it is not substantially disruptive to the
educational setting.

Controversial issues may not be initiated by a source outside the
schools unless prior approval has been given by the principal.

When controversial issues have not been specified in the course of
study, the Board will permit the instructional use of only those issues
which have been approved by the principal.

In the discussion of any issue, a teacher may express a personal
opinion, but shall identify it as such, and must not express such an
opinion for the purpose of persuading students to his/her point of view.

The Board recognizes that a course of study or certain instructional
materials may contain content and/or activities that some parents find
objectionable. If after careful, personal review of the program lessons
and/or materials, a parent indicates to the school that either the
content or activities conflicts with his/her religious beliefs or value
system, the school will honor a written request for his/her child to be
excused from a particular class for specified reasons. The student,
however, will not be excused from participating in the course and will
be provided alternate learning activities during times of such parent
requested absences.

The Superintendent shall develop administrative guidelines for dealing
with controversial issues and with parental concerns about program
content or the use of particular materials.

R.C. 3313.601

Revised 3/22/99\
 Revised 1/21/03
