2210 - CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT
=============================

The Board of Education recognizes its responsibility for the quality of
the educational program of the schools. To this end, the curriculum
shall be developed, evaluated, and adopted on a continuing basis and in
accordance with a plan for curriculum development established by the
Superintendent.

For purposes of this policy, curriculum shall be defined as learning
activities approved by the Board for individuals or groups of students
and necessary to accomplish the educational goals of the District.

The curriculum of this District shall:

A. provide instruction in courses required by Statute and State
Department of Education regulations;

B. be consistent with the District and school statement of philosophy
and goals, and result in their achievement;

C. provide for continuous learning at all levels of this District;

D. provide all students access to a variety of learning resources to
support the educational program;

E. allow for all students to receive guidance and counseling in career
and academic planning;

F. provide necessary educational programs and services for all disabled
students;

G. provide compensatory education programs for students pursuant to law
and regulation;

H. provide career awareness and vocational education pursuant to law and
guidelines;

I. provide appropriate educational opportunities for gifted and talented
students;

J. provide for the use of phonics in the teaching of reading in grades
K-3.

The Superintendent shall be responsible to the Board for a continuing
program of curriculum review and development. S/He shall establish
procedures which ensure the effective participation of professional
staff members, students, parents, community members, members of the
Board, and the utilization of all available resources, as appropriate.

R.C. 3301.07, 3301.132, 3313.60, 3313.602, 3313.843, 3315.07\
 R.C. 3317.023, 3317.11, 3319.02\
 A.C. 3301-99-01, 3301-35-02

Revised 10/11/90\

