---
layout: default
title: 2261.01 - PARENT PARTICIPATION IN TITLE I PROGRAMS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

In accordance with the requirements of Federal law, programs supported
by Title I funds must be planned and implemented in meaningful
consultation with parents of the students being served.

Each year the Superintendent or his/her designee shall work with parents
of children served in Title I Programs in order to jointly develop and
agree upon a proposed written parent involvement policy to establish
expectations for the involvement of such parents in the education of
their children. The proposed policy shall be reviewed and approved
annually by the Board of Education and distributed to parents of
children receiving Title I services. The proposed policy must describe
how the School District will:

A. involve parents in the development of the School District's Title I
plans and in the process of school review and improvement, if necessary;

B. provide coordination, technical assistance, and other support
necessary to assist schools in planning and implementing effective
parent involvement activities to improve student achievement and school
performance;

C. build the schools' and parents' capacity for strong parental
involvement;

D. coordinate and integrate parent involvement strategies with parent
involvement strategies under other programs such as Head Start, Reading
First, Early Reading First, Even Start, Parents and Teachers, and Home
Instruction for Preschool Youngsters;

E. in consultation with parents, annually evaluate the content and
effectiveness of the parent involvement policy in improving the academic
quality of schools, including:

​1. identifying barriers to greater parent participation;

​2. designing strategies for more effective parental involvement; and,

​3. revising the parental involvement policy if necessary;

F. involve parents of children receiving Title I services in deciding
how Title I funds reserved for parent involvement activities will be
allocated;

G. provide full opportunities for the participation of parents with
limited English proficiency, parents with disabilities and parents of
migratory children, including providing information and school reports
in a format, and to the extent practicable in a language, such parents
can understand;

H. conduct meetings with parents including provisions for flexible
scheduling and assistance to parents to better assure their attendance
at meetings;

I. develop agendas for parent meetings to include review and explanation
of the curriculum, means of assessments, and the proficiency levels
students are expected to achieve and maintain;

J. provide opportunities for parents to formulate suggestions, interact
and share experiences with other parents, and participate appropriately
in the decision-making about the program and revisions in the plan;

K. involve parents in the planning, review, and improvement of the Title
I program;

L. communicate information concerning school performance profiles and
their child's individual performance to parents;

M. assist parents in helping their children in achieving the objectives
of the program by such means as ensuring regular attendance, monitoring
television-watching, providing adequate time and the proper environment
for homework; guiding nutritional and health practices, and the like;

N. provide timely responses to parental questions, concerns, and
recommendations;

O. coordinate and provide technical assistance and other support
necessary to assist Title I schools to develop effective parent
participation activities to improve academic achievement;

P. conduct other activities as appropriate to the Title I plan and State
and Federal requirements.

The Superintendent or his/her designee must also assure that each Title
I participating school develops a specific written plan, with parental
involvement and agreement, which includes provisions regarding the
following:

A. Each principal must convene an annual meeting at a convenient time to
which all parents of participating children are invited and encouraged
to attend to explain the parents' rights to be involved and the school's
obligations to develop a parental involvement plan.

B. Meetings with parents of children receiving Title I services must be
scheduled at flexible times with assistance such as child care,
transportation, home visits, or similar aid offered to parents to
encourage their involvement.

C. Parents must be involved in an organized, on-going and timely way in
the development, review, and improvement of parent involvement
activities.

D. Parents of participating students must be provided with:

​1. timely information about the Title I program and the school's parent
involvement policy;

​2. a description and explanation of the curriculum in use at the
school, the forms of academic assessment used to measure student
progress, and the proficiency levels expected;

​3. regular meetings, upon request, for parents to make suggestions, and
to participate as appropriate, in decisions relating to the education of
their children, and receive responses regarding the parents' suggestions
about their student's education as soon as practicably possible;

E. As a component of the school parental involvement policy, the
principal for each school shall coordinate the development of a
school-parent compact jointly with parents which outlines how the school
staff, the parents, and the student will share responsibility for
academic improvement and the means by which the school and parents will
build and develop a partnership to help students achieve State
standards. The compact must:

​1. describe the school's responsibility to provide a high quality
curriculum and instruction in a supportive, effective learning
environment;

​2. describe the parent's responsibility to support their child's
learning environment such as monitoring attendance, homework,
extra-curricular activities and excessive television watching;
volunteering in the classroom; and participating, as appropriate, in
decisions relating to the education of their children;

​3. address the importance of parent/teacher communication on an
on-going basis through at least annual parent teacher conferences to
discuss achievement and the compact; frequent progress reports to the
parents on their child's progress; and reasonable access to the staff
and to observe and participate in classroom activities.

F. Parents of children receiving Title I services must be notified about
school parent involvement policies in an understandable and uniform
format, and to the extent practicable, in a language the parents can
understand. These policies must also be made available to the community.

G. School parent involvement policies must be evaluated periodically to
consider whether they meet the changing needs of parents and the
schools.

In order to involve parents in the education of their children and to
support a partnership among the school, parents and the community for
improving students achievement, the Superintendent or his/her designee
and building principals must include provisions in the School District
and school parent involvement policies regarding:

A. assisting parents of children served under Title I in understanding
the State's academic content and assessment standards, and in
understanding how to monitor their child's progress and how to work with
educators to improve their child's achievement;

B. providing materials and training to help parents work with their
children to improve achievement;

C. educating teachers, pupil services personnel, and other staff, with
the assistance of parents, about the value and utility of contributions
of parents, how to reach out to, communicate with, and work with parents
as equal partners, how to implement and coordinate parent programs, and
how to build ties between parents and the school;

D. to the extent feasible and appropriate, coordination and integration
of parent involvement programs and activities with other Federal
programs;

E. providing such reasonable support for parent involvement activities
as parents may request.

In order to build the School District's capacity for parent involvement,
the Superintendent and building principals may also:

A. involve parents in the development of training for teachers and
administrators to improve the effectiveness of such training;

B. pay reasonable and necessary expenses associated with parental
involvement activities to enable parents to participate in
school-related meetings and training sessions, including transportation
and child care costs;

C. train parents to enhance the involvement of other parents;

D. adopt and implement model approaches to improving parental
involvement;

E. establish a District-wide parent advisory council to provide advice
on all matters related to parental involvement programs;

F. develop appropriate roles for community-based organizations and
businesses in parental involvement activities.

20 U.S.C. 6318 et seq.\
 34 C.F.R. Part 200 et seq.

Adopted 3/22/99\
 Revised 11/18/08
