---
layout: default
title: 2271 - POST SECONDARY ENROLLMENT PROGRAMS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education recognizes the value to students and to the
District for students to participate in programs offered by accredited
colleges and universities in Ohio.

The Board will approve participation by students in grades 9 through 12
or attending the Warren County Career Center who meet the State Board of
Education's criteria, to enroll in approved post secondary programs
while in attendance in the District. Students will be eligible to
receive secondary credit for completing any of these programs. Such
credit will count toward graduation requirements providing the course is
free of charge or paid for by the parents of the student.

No student may participate, however, without the written consent of
parents, if under the age of eighteen (18). Students must also
participate in the counseling services offered in relation to this
educational option, which must include information and counseling
designed to make the student aware of the possible risks and benefits of
the post secondary enrollment options program. Students in grades 8-11
must be provided with such information on or before March 1^st^ in the
year prior to enrollment in the program.

The District may deny high school credit for postsecondary courses any
portion of which are taken during the period of a student's expulsion.
If the student has elected to receive credit for course(s) toward
fulfilling graduation requirements as well as postsecondary credit, that
election is automatically revoked for all college courses in which the
student is enrolled during the college term in which the expulsion is
imposed.

The Superintendent shall establish the necessary administrative
guidelines to comply with State law which will thereafter be properly
communicated to both students and their parents. The Superintendent
shall also establish guidelines and procedures for the awarding of
credit and the proper entry on a student's transcript and other records
of his/her participation in a post secondary program.

R.C. 3365.02 through 3365.10; 3313.613

Adopted 10/11/90\
 Revised 3/22/99\
 Revised 12/21/99
