---
layout: default
title: 2262 - LATCH-KEY PROGRAMS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education is concerned about the growing number of children
who are receiving insufficient care, nurture, or supervision when not
attending school. This has serious implications for their general
well-being as well as for their ability to benefit from the school
program to the extent they need or want to.

Since those children constitute a significant and growing portion of the
student population, the Board shall seek to provide appropriate programs
and services for these students, particularly in grades K through 5, by
contracting for its facilities to be used by an outside organization
specializing in latch-key programs.

No funds shall be expended for the program from the General Fund other
than for:

A. facilities, if currently used for other purposes;

B. utilities furnished in conjunction with the program;

C. transportation by regular school buses.

The Superintendent shall establish administrative guidelines that will
ensure that:

A. prior to the creation and approval of any latch-key program, parents
and other members of the community are provided an opportunity to make
recommendations on the operation and funding of the program;

B. programs and services are available to participating students both
prior to the start of the regular school day and after school. The time
periods should be scheduled so that a student may participate from the
time s/he leaves a supervised environment until s/he may return to one;

C. the major emphasis is on providing educational programs and
activities that help the students learn how to function more effectively
as learners in the school setting while, at the same time, coping better
with the out-of-school factors that are interfering with their
educational program;

D. adequate attention is given to ensuring the students are being
clothed and fed properly, exercising regularly, and learning how to
maintain good physical and mental health;

E. any organization(s) contracted with to provide these programs has
acquired adequate liability insurance and is maintaining appropriate
adult-child ratios, providing quality child care, and, in general,
complying with guidelines established by the State and the District;

F. parents are notified about the program and the procedures for
enrollment;

G. there is continuing assessment of the effectiveness of the program by
staff, participating parents, and other concerned members of the public.

R.C. 3313.207/208/209; 5104

Adopted 4/23/93
