---
layout: default
title: 2260 - NONDISCRIMINATION AND ACCESS TO EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY
---

{{ page.title }}
================

Any form of discrimination or harassment can be devastating to an
individual's academic progress, social relationship and/or personal
sense of self-worth. Therefore, the Board of Education will not
discriminate nor tolerate harassment in its educational programs or
activities for any reasons, including on the basis of religion, race,
color, national origin, sex, disability, military status, ancestry, or
age. Additionally, it will not discriminate in its employment policies
and practices.

The Board is committed to providing an equal opportunity for all
students, regardless of race, color, creed, disability, religion,
gender, ancestry, age, national origin, place of residence within the
boundaries of the District, or social or economic background, to learn
through the curriculum offered in this District.

In order to achieve the aforesaid goal, the Board directs the
Superintendent to:

A. **Curriculum Content\
**

review current and proposed courses of study and textbooks to detect any
bias based upon race, color, gender, disability, religion, national
origin, ancestry, or culture; ascertaining whether or not supplemental
materials, singly or taken as a whole, fairly depict the contribution of
both genders, various races, ethnic groups, etc. toward the development
of human society;

B. **Staff Training\
**

develop an ongoing program of in-service training for school personnel
designed to identify and solve problems of race, color, gender,
religious, national origin, cultural, or other bias in all aspects of
the program;

C. **Student Access**

review current and proposed programs, activities, facilities, and
practices to ensure that all students have equal access thereto and are
not segregated on the basis of race, color, creed, gender, disability,
or national origin in any duty, work, play, classroom, or school
practice, except as may be permitted under State and Federal laws and
regulations;

D. **District Support\
**

ensure that like aspects of the District program receive like support as
to staff size and compensation, purchase and maintenance of facilities
and equipment, access to such facilities and equipment, and related
matters;

E. **Student Evaluation\
**

ensure that tests, procedures, and guidance and counseling materials,
which are designed to evaluate student progress, rate aptitudes, analyze
personality, or in any manner establish or tend to establish a category
by which a student may be judged, are not differentiated or stereotyped
on the basis of race, color, creed, gender, or national origin.

The Superintendent shall appoint and publicize the name of the
compliance officer whose responsibility it will be to coordinate the
District's efforts to comply with applicable Federal and State laws and
regulations, including the District's duty to address in a prompt and
equitable manner any inquiries or complaints regarding discrimination or
denial of equal access. The Compliance Officer shall also verify that
proper notice of nondiscrimination for Title II, Title VI, and VII of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IX of the Education Amendment Act of
1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans with
Disabilities Act, and the Age Discrimination in Federal Assisted
Programs Act is provided to students, their parents, staff members, and
the general public.

The Superintendent shall annually attempt to identify children with
disabilities, ages 3-22, who reside in the District but do not receive
public education. In addition, s/he shall establish procedures to
identify students who are Limited English Proficient (LEP), including
immigrant children and youth, to assess their ability to participate in
District programs, and develop and administer a program that meets the
English language and academic needs of these students. This program
shall include procedures for student placement, services, evaluation and
exit guidelines and shall be designed to provide students with effective
instruction that leads to academic achievement and timely acquisition of
proficiency in English. As a part of this program, the District will
evaluate the progress of students in achieving English language
proficiency in the areas of listening, speaking, reading and writing, on
an annual basis.

R.C. 3301.0711, 3302.01, 3302.03, 3313.61, 3313.611, 3313.612, 3317.03\
 A.C. 3301-35-02(A)\
 Fourteenth Amendment, U.S. Constitution\
 20 U.S.C. Section 1681, Title IX of Education Amendment Act\
 20 U.S.C. Section 1701 et seq., Equal Educational Opportunities Act of
1974\
 29 U.S.C. Section 794, Rehabilitation Act of 1973\
 42 U.S.C. Section 2000 et seq., Civil Rights Act of 1964\
 42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq., The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990\
 42 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.\
 34 CFR Part 110 (7/27/93)\
 Vocational Education Program Guidelines for Eliminating Discrimination
and Denial\
 of Services, Department of Education, Office of Civil Rights, March
1979\
 Title III of the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001

Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 4/23/93\
 Revised 11/30/93\
 Revised 3/22/99\
 Revised 7/23/03\
 Revised 1/13/04\
 Revised 9/27/05\
 Revised 1/23/07\
 Revised 9/23/08
