---
layout: default
title: 2261 - TITLE I SERVICES
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education elects to augment the educational program of
educationally disadvantaged students by the use of Federal funds and in
accordance with Title I of the Amendments to the Elementary and
Secondary School Improvement of 1965.

The Superintendent shall prepare and present to the Department of
Education a plan for the delivery of services which meets the
requirements of the law, including those described below. The plan shall
be developed by appropriate staff members and parents of students who
will be served by the plan.

**A. Assessment**

The District shall annually assess the educational needs of eligible
children, as determined by Federal and State criteria. Such assessment
shall include performance measures mandated by the Department of
Education as well as those determined by the District professional
staff, that will assist in the diagnosis, teaching, and learning of the
participating students.

**B. Scope**

Each school shall determine whether the funds will be used to upgrade
the educational program of an entire school and/or to establish or
improve programs that provide services only for eligible students in
greatest need of assistance. The program, for an entire school and/or a
Targeted Assistance School shall include the components required by law
as well as those agreed upon by participating staff and parents.

**C. Participation**

The Title I program shall be developed and evaluated in consultation
with parents and professional staff members involved in its
implementation. Appropriate training will be provided to staff members
who provide Title I services. Parent participation shall be in accord
with Board Policy 2261.01 and shall meet the requirements of Section
1118 of the Act.

**D. Comparability of Services**

Title I funds will be used only to augment, not to replace, State and
local funds. The Superintendent shall use State and local funds to
provide educational services in schools receiving Title I assistance
that, taken as a whole, are at least comparable to services being
provided in schools that are not receiving Title I assistance.\

The determination of the comparability of services may exclude, in
accordance with Federal regulations, State and local funds spent on
compensatory education programs, bilingual education programs, and
programs for educationally-disabled students. The determination of
comparability will not take into account unpredictable changes in
student enrollments or personnel assignments.\

In order to achieve comparability of services, the Superintendent shall
assign teachers, administrators, and auxiliary personnel and provide
curriculum materials and instructional supplies in such a manner as to
ensure equivalence throughout the District.

**E. Professional Development**

The Superintendent shall develop administrative guidelines whereby
members of the professional staff participate in the design and
implementation of staff development activities that meet the
requirements of Section 1119 of the Act and:

​1. involve parents in the training, when appropriate;

​2. combine and consolidate other available Federal and District funds;

​3. foster cooperative training with institutions of higher learning and
other educational organizations including other school districts;

​4. allocate part of the staff development to the following types of
strategies: performance-based student assessment, use of technology,
working effectively with parents, early childhood education, and meeting
children's special needs

**F. Simultaneous Services**

In accordance with law, a school offering Title I services may also
serve other students with similar needs.

20 U.S.C. 2701 et seq., Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965

Revised 3/22/99
