---
layout: default
title: 2340 - FIELD TRIPS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education recognizes that field trips when used for
teaching and learning integral to the accomplishment of the District's
educational goals are an educationally sound and important ingredient in
the instructional program of the schools.

For purposes of this policy, a field trip is defined as any journey by a
group of students away from the school premises, under the supervision
of a teacher or authorized staff member, which is an integral part of
the school program and conducted for the purpose of providing a
first-hand educational experience not available in the classroom.

The Superintendent shall approve all proposed field trips. The Board of
Education shall be informed in advance of all out of State field trips.

Students on field trips and study trips approved by the Board remain
under the supervision of the Board and are subject to its administrative
guidelines.

Study trips to locations in Ohio, the U.S.A., or other countries which
are not approved field trips must be approved in advance by the Board.
Such trips shall be voluntary for both the staff and students at no cost
to the Board. Student grades shall not be based in any way on
participation in study trips.

No student may participate in an approved study trip without having on
file in the principal's office a completed signed parent permission form
and statement indemnifying the Board for damages or liability incurred
during the study trip.

The Board does not assume liability in any way for any staff member of
this District who takes students on trips not approved by the
Superintendent. No staff member may solicit students of this District
for such trips on school premises without the permission of the building
principal.

The Superintendent shall prepare procedures for the operation of a field
trip which ensure:

A. The safety and well-being of students is protected at all times.

B. The principal approves the purpose, itinerary and duration of each
proposed trip.

C. Each field trip is properly planned, integrated with the curriculum,
and followed with appropriate related activities.

D. Teachers do not change a planned itinerary while the trip is in
progress, except where the health, safety, or welfare of the students is
imperiled.

In any instance in which the itinerary of field trip is altered, the
teacher in charge shall notify the administrative superior immediately.

School vehicles are not to be used if the entire distance traveled
outside the State is more than two hundred-forty (240) miles.

R.C. 3327.15\
 A.C. 3301-83-12, 3301-83-16(A)(B)(E)

Revised 10/11/90
