2423 - SCHOOL-TO-WORK PROGRAM
=============================

The Board of Education strongly supports the School-to-Work
Opportunities Act as a vehicle to help the District prepare students
more effectively for the world of work. Through this legislation, the
District will be able to provide students with the following learning
experiences needed to develop career-related knowledge, attitudes, and
skills as well as life-long learning skills:

A. School-based Learning which includes career awareness, exploration,
and counseling and the integration of academic and vocational learning.

B. Work-based Learning which provides students with a planned program of
job training and/or various types of work experiences that are
coordinated with school-based learning.

C. Connecting Activities which are designed to ensure that there is
effective correlation and coordination between what students learn in
school and what they learn at worksites.

The Superintendent is authorized to design and implement school-to-work
activities and programs, both independently for this District and in
cooperation with other districts, that create the three (3) types of
learnings described above. In addition, s/he should take the steps
necessary to ensure that the District is participating actively in
alliances, consortia, and/or committees that are coordinating
school-to-work initiatives in this area.

The Superintendent's guidelines for the development and implementation
of school-to-work activities/programs need to provide for the following
concerns of the Board:

A. Proposals are submitted to obtain planning and/or implementation
funds from the State and other sources, when available and appropriate.

B. Informed parental consent will be obtained for any out-of-district
activities such as career-awareness trips, job shadowing, work
experiences, and the like.

C. Proper supervision is being provided for all students when they are
participating in learning activities in off-school sites.

D. All students are being provided appropriate opportunities to
participate in school-to-work activities.

E. Emphasis is being placed throughout the program on the
development/reinforcement of a high-quality work ethic by every student.

F. Each learning activity/program will have defined objectives with
clear correlation to career preparation and a means for assessing how
well each student is achieving the objectives.

G. All activities/programs will comply with associated Board policies
and District guidelines as well as applicable Federal/State laws.

As appropriate to a particular program initiative, the Superintendent
may request waivers from the State on certain statutory or regulatory
provisions that are contained in the Elementary and Secondary Education
Act and the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Act.

The Superintendent shall keep the Board informed periodically on the
progress of the District toward the goals of this important program.

Public Law 103-239, School-to-Work Initiatives Act of 1994

Adopted 3/22/99
