---
layout: default
title: 2421 - VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROGRAM
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education recognizes that not all students wish to stay
involved in formal education beyond high school and must, therefore, be
prepared to enter the labor force as productive workers.

For purposes of this policy, "vocational education" shall be defined as
a program designed to provide educational experiences and guidance for
students to plan and prepare for a future:

A. in the labor market as employable individuals immediately after
graduation with productive, salable skills;

B. in education beyond high school with the opportunity to gain a
marketable job skill(s) that will assist them in achieving career goals;

C. in the world of work while continuing their education in order to
help offset higher education expenses.

In addition to vocational classes required by law, the Board shall
provide, in cooperation with the Warren County Career Center, a
vocational education program which shall include:

A. Industrial Education;

B. Agricultural Education;

C. Home Economics Education;

D. Business Education.

The Board directs that any efforts to recruit students to participate in
a particular vocational program must include literature and comparable
recruitment efforts for disabled students in a format and context in
which they can communicate.

The vocational education program may also include:

A. a shared-time program outside of school;

B. a work-study program involving the employment of qualified students.

The work-study programs are available to students without regard for
race, color, national origin, sex, age, or disability. The
Superintendent is to ensure that application forms for work-study
programs contain a notice of nondiscrimination and that each employer
associated with a work-study program has provided an assurance of
nondiscrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex,
age, and disability prior to the time the students are selected and/or
assigned.

R.C. 3313.53, 3313.90 et seq.\
 A.C. 3301-61

Revised 4/23/93\
 Revised 3/22/99
