---
layout: default
title: 2464 - GIFTED EDUCATION AND IDENTIFICATION
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education shall ensure that procedures are established to
identify all gifted students. The District follows the identification
eligibility criteria as specified in Section 3324.03 of the Ohio Revised
Code and the *Operating Standards for Identifying and Serving Gifted
Students* as specified in the District Plan.\

"Gifted" students perform or show potential for performing at remarkably
high levels of accomplishment when compared to others of their age,
experience, or environment. Annually, children who are gifted are
identified by professionally qualified persons using a variety of
assessment procedures. The Board encourages efforts to provide services
for the children who are gifted as an integral part of the total
kindergarten through grade 12 program.

The Superintendent or his/her designee shall identify children in grades
kindergarten through twelve, who may be gifted in one or more of the
following areas:

A. Superior Cognitive Ability

B. Specific Academic Ability in one or more of the following content
areas:

​1. Mathematics

​2. Science

​3. Reading, writing, or a combination of these skills

​4. Social studies

C. Creative Thinking Ability

D. Visual or Performing Arts Ability such as drawing, painting,
sculpting, music, dance, drama.

Only those instruments approved by the Ohio Department of Education
shall be used for screening, assessment, and identification of children
who are gifted as provided in the Chart of Approved Assessment
Instruments for Gifted Screening and Identification. The District shall
select instruments from the approved list that will allow for
appropriate screening and identification of minority and disadvantaged
students, students with disabilities, and students for whom English is a
second language.\

Scores on Ohio Department of Education approved assessment instruments
provided by other school districts and trained personnel outside the
School District shall be accepted.

The Board of Education shall adopt and the Superintendent shall submit
to the Ohio Department of Education a plan for the screening,
assessment, and identification of children who are gifted. Any revisions
to the District plan will be submitted to the Ohio Department of
Education for approval. The identification plan shall include the
following:

A. the criteria and methods used to screen and select children for
further assessment who perform or show potential for performing at
remarkably high levels of accomplishment in one of the gifted areas

B. the sources of assessment data used to select children for further
testing and an explanation to parents of the multiple assessment
instruments required to identify children who are gifted

C. an explanation for parents of the methods used to ensure equal access
to screening and further assessment by all District children, culturally
and linguistically diverse children, children from low socio-economic
background, children with disabilities, and children for whom English is
a second language

D. the process of notifying parents regarding all policies and
procedures concerning the screening, assessment, and identification of
children who are gifted

E. provision of an opportunity for parents to appeal any decision about
the results of any screening procedure for assessment, the scheduling of
children for assessment, or the placement of a student in any program or
for receipt of services

F. procedures for the assessment of children who transfer into the
District

G. at least two (2) opportunities a year for assessment in the case of
children requesting assessment or recommended for assessment by
teachers, parents, or other children

The District's plan may provide for contracting with any qualified
public or private service provider for screening or assessment services
under the plan.

The Superintendent or his/her designee shall:

A. ensure equal opportunity for all children identified as gifted to
receive any or all services offered by the District;

B. implement a procedure for withdrawal of children from District
services and for reassessment of children;

C. implement a procedure for resolving disputes with regard to
identification and placement decisions;

D. inform parents of the contents of this policy as required by R.C.
3324.06;

E. submit, as required, an annual report to the Ohio Department of
Education.

Placement procedures for District services shall be in conformance with
the District's written criteria for determining eligibility for
placement in those services.

A. Written criteria for determining eligibility for placement in a
gifted service shall be provided to any parent, District educator, or
the Ohio Department of Education upon request.

B. Written criteria provided by the District shall include an
explanation of the methods used to ensure equal access to each gifted
service for all eligible District students, including minority or
disadvantaged students, students with disabilities, and students for
whom English is a second language.

C. Services which students receive shall be consistent with their
area(s) of identification and shall be differentiated to meet their
needs.

D. Subjective criteria such as teacher recommendations shall not be used
to exclude a student from service in the superior cognitive and specific
academic areas who would otherwise be eligible.

E. All District students who meet the written criteria for a gifted
service shall be provided an equal opportunity to receive that service.

The Superintendent or his/her designee shall implement all policies and
procedures in accordance with laws, rules and regulations, and follow
the Operating Standards for Identifying and Serving Gifted Students.

The Superintendent shall develop a plan for the service of gifted
students enrolled in the District identified under this policy. Services
specified in the plan may include such options as the following:

A. a differentiated curriculum

B. differentiated instruction

C. cluster groupings

D. mentorships

E. whole grade acceleration (see Policy [**5410**](po5410.html))

F. subject acceleration (see Policy [**5410**](po5410.html))

G. early entrance (see Policy [**5112**](po5112.html))

H. early high school graduation (see Policy 5464)

I. dual enrollment options including, but not limited to, the
postsecondary enrollment option program

J. advanced placement

K. honors classes

L. magnet schools

M. self-contained classrooms

N. resource rooms

O. independent study/educational options

P. advanced online courses and programs

Q. internships

R. other options identified in the rules of the Ohio Department of
Education

A Written Education Plan (WEP) will guide the gifted services based on
the student's area(s) of identification and individual needs. The
Written Education Plan shall:

A. provide a description of the services to be provided;

B. specify staff members responsible for providing that specific
services are delivered;

C. implement a procedure for resolving disputes with regard to
identification and placement decisions;

D. specify policies regarding the waiver of assignments and the
scheduling of tests missed while participating in any gifted services
provided outside the general classroom if different from the District
policy detailed below;

E. specify a date by which the WEP will be reviewed for possible
revision.

Students participating in gifted services provided outside the general
education classroom will generally be exempted from routine class work
(worksheets, homework, etc.) assigned during absences from the regular
classroom due to participation in the gifted services. Students are to
turn in tests. Special class work (projects, book reports, etc.)
assigned during the student's absence are to be completed. Exceptions to
this policy will be detailed in the student's WrittenEducation Plan.

The District shall report to parents and the Ohio Department of
Education that a student is receiving gifted education services only if
the services are provided in conformance with the Operating Standards
for Identifying and Serving Gifted Students.

R.C. 3301.07(K), 3324.01 - 3324.07,**3315.09, 3317.024(O)\
 A.C. 3301-51-15

Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 1/11/00\
 Revised 11/18/08
