---
layout: default
title: 2430 - CO-CURRICULAR AND EXTRA-CURRICULAR PROGRAMS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education believes that the fulfillment of the District
Mission Statement may best be achieved through a variety of learning
experiences, some of which are more appropriately conducted outside of
the regular classroom curricular program of the school. The Board of
Education encourages participation in co-curricular and extra-curricular
activities, so long as time requirements do not jeopardize student
success in core academic studies. For the purpose of identifying the
different types of activities, the following definitions are hereby
adopted:

A. **Sponsored Activity\
**

Activities formally approved by the School District and supervised by
School District employees in the course of their employment or by
approved volunteers.

B. **Approved Activities\
**

Activities formally approved by the School District which are not
supervised by District employees in the course of their employment or by
approved volunteers.

C. **Independent Activities\
**

Activities involving students that have not been approved by the School
District and for which the District assumes no responsibility.

D. **Curricular Activities\
**

Those District-sponsored activities taking place during school hours.

E. **Co-Curricular Activities\
**

Those activities conducted on or off school premises by clubs,
associations, and organizations of students sponsored by the Board which
receive or spend at least \$50 in the school year but not including
athletic competitions and practices. In addition, at least a portion of
an academic grade is a result of participation in said activity.

F. **Extra-Curricular Activities\
**

Those activities conducted on or off school premises predominately after
the regular school day. Activities requiring eligibility include
marching band, cheerleaders, drill team, flag corp., winter guard,
winter percussion, drama and all interscholastic athletic programs.

G. **Nonathletic Activities\
**

Those activities whose purpose does not include the physical development
of the student.

H. **District-Sanctioned Activities\
**

In addition to extra-curricular activities it sponsors, the Board may,
from time to time, choose to permit certain activities which are not
part of the regular extra-curricular program of the District but which
can benefit those students who wish to participate. Although permitting
an activity, the Board will not assume any responsibility for its
planning, conduct, or evaluation.\

The Board may make facilities available in accordance with its Policy
[**7510**](po7510.md) - Use of Facilities.\

No organization may use the name of the District or any other name which
would associate the activity with the District without the consent of
the Board. Requests for such consent must be submitted to the
Superintendent and receive his/her recommendation prior to consideration
by the Board.

I. **Nondistrict-Sponsored Student Clubs and Activities\
**

The Board shall allow nondistrict-sponsored student clubs and activities
during non-instructional time, in accordance with the provision in
Policy [**5730**](po5730.md) - Equal Access for Nondistrict-Sponsored
Student Clubs and Activities.

The conduct of activities which are neither sponsored nor approved is
not the responsibility of the School District, even though such
activities may be permitted to utilize school buildings or other
District facilities in accord with Board policy. The Superintendent
shall at all times maintain a current list of sponsored and approved
activities.

The Board believes that properly structured, well-managed co-curricular
activities can both supplement and reinforce the District's curricular
programs. Co-curricular activities must be related to curriculum but not
offered for credit toward promotion or graduation and are not ordinarily
conducted during the regular school day. No co-curricular activity shall
be considered to be under the sponsorship of this Board unless its
relationship to one (1) or more courses of study has been demonstrated
and the activity has been approved by the Board on recommendation of the
Superintendent. The following policies are intended to provide guidance
to those who design and operate these programs.

### ELIGIBILITY

All approved or sponsored activities shall be open to all students
enrolled in the District who are capable of satisfying reasonable
criteria for admission and continuing participation, as determined by
the Superintendent, or as recommended by the athletic council and
approved by the Board.

Unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent, participation in one
activity shall not be made a prerequisite for participation in another
activity.

With regard to interscholastic athletic activities, the Superintendent
shall determine the standards of eligibility to be met by all students
wishing to participate. Further, in grades 7 - 12, coaches, directors,
and advisors may adopt, subject to review by the Superintendent, fair
and reasonable standards to limit participation to those persons who are
most likely to be successful in competition, both individually and as a
team member. Such standards shall at a minimum require that each student
be in good physical condition, be free of injury, and shall have fully
recovered from any illness.

Additionally, unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent, students
in grades K-8 shall not participate, in co-curricular, extra-curricular,
or athletic activities conducted for students in grades 9-12. Similarly,
students in grades 9-12 shall not participate in co-curricular,
extra-curricular, or athletic activities conducted for students in
grades K-8.

Participation in activities requiring eligibility, as defined in item F
on page 1 of this policy, shall be limited to students who meet the
following criteria:

A. must have completed the sixth grade

B. must be currently enrolled in grades 9-12 and must have been enrolled
in school the immediately preceding grading period; received passing
grades during that grading period in subjects that earned a minimum of
5.0 credits, or the equivalent, per year toward graduation; and must
have at least a 67% average or the equivalent for the preceding grading
period.

C. must be enrolled in grades seven and eight and must have been
enrolled in school the immediately preceding grading period; received
passing grades in at least seventy-five percent (75%) of all subjects
and have at least a 70% average or the equivalent for the preceding
grading period; except for a student enrolled in grade seven (7) for the
first time or if they were eligible at a previous school, shall be
eligible for the initial grading period regardless of previous academic
achievement.

D. in season students, with the exception of drama, must maintain weekly
eligibility. Any student receiving more than one (1) Unsatisfactory
behavioral grade and/or any grade equivalent to less than a 67% average
in grades 9 - 12 or 70% average in grades 7 - 8 in two (2) different
subjects will result in loss of eligibility for one (1) week. Students
can not lose eligibility during the first week of a grading period. A
student who lost eligibility in the last week of a grading period is
ineligible during the first week of the next grading period.

E. must demonstrate good citizenship, and exercise responsibility toward
self and others

F. must have returned all school and athletic equipment as required

G. must not be currently subject to out-of-school suspension

H. must satisfy any other requirements recommended by the athletic
council and approved by the Board

The District Athletic Council and the Superintendent shall annually
review these eligibility requirements with the intent of evaluating the
student's grade point average as a requirement for eligibility.
Recommendations regarding changes in eligibility standards shall be made
as necessary no later than February of each year.

A student who has received a failing grade for any one class or course
in the School District's graded course of study for the previous grading
period shall not be prohibited from participating in co-curricular,
extra-curricular, or athletic activities if s/he meets the criteria
specified above. A student who receives a failing grade for more than
one (1) class or course shall be prohibited from participating, however.

Participation in athletic activities or activities requiring travel off
school property shall require prior written approval of parent or
guardian and waiver of liability on a form approved by the
Superintendent.

### ATHLETIC PROGRAM GUIDELINES

The Superintendent shall develop appropriate administrative guidelines
for the operation of the athletic program and a Code of Conduct for
those who participate. Such guidelines should provide for the following
safeguards:

A. Prior to enrolling in the sport, each participant shall submit to a
thorough physical examination by a licensed physician and their parents
shall report any past or current health problems along with a
physician's statement that any such problems have or are being treated
and pose no threat to the student's participation.

B. Any student who is found to have a health condition which may be
life-threatening to self or others shall not be allowed to participate
until the situation has been analyzed by a medial review panel that has
determined the conditions under which the student may participate. The
District shall assume no liability for any student with a health
condition who has been authorized to play by the parents and their
physician.

C. Any student who incurs an injury requiring a physician's licensed
care is to have a new physical examination by a licensed physician prior
to the student's return to participation. Said physician shall provide a
written notice allowing return to participate.

D. In order to minimize health and safety risks to student-athletes and
maintain ethical standards, school personnel, coaches, athletic
trainers, and volunteer coaches, should never dispense, supply,
recommend, or permit the use of any drug, medication, or food
supplement.

E. The Superintendent is also to develop guidelines for ensuring that
sportsmanship, ethics, and integrity characterize the manner in which
the athletic program is conducted and the actions of students who
participate.

### SUPERVISION

School District employees or approved volunteers who supervise
co-curricular activities shall hold one of the following titles:

A. **Coach\
**

Supervises athletic activities involving a competitive sport.

B. **Director\
**

Supervises athletic and non-athletic musical activities.

C. **Advisor\
**

Supervises athletic and nonathletic activities which are neither musical
nor competitive.

### ACTIVITIES ON DAYS SCHOOLS ARE CLOSED FOR WEATHER CONDITIONS

Co-curricular and athletic activities on days that schools are closed
because of severe weather or other emergencies shall be held only after
approval of the Superintendent or his/her designee. In the event that
the Superintendent or his/her designee approve activities, then each
principal shall be responsible for directing the scheduling of
activities that provide fair access for all groups during the time
school buildings are available for use. Activity times will be scheduled
as close as possible to the normal school day time. Under no
circumstances shall coaches or advisors transport students to and from
activities on days that schools are closed for weather conditions or
other emergencies.

### SAME-DAY ABSENCES

A student must attend the entire school day in order to participate in
an extra-curricular activity scheduled for that afternoon or evening
unless receiving the written permission of the building principal.
Before giving such permission, the principal shall assure that such
permission will not jeopardize the health of the student or other
students and that such permission is in the best interests of both the
student and the affected activity.

### FAMILY VACATIONS AND TRAVEL

The Board recognizes the importance of family unity and the educational
value of family travel to destinations outside the local community.
Therefore, a student's participation in extra-curricular or
co-curricular activities may not be limited on the basis of missed
practices or competitions occurring during a family approved vacation or
trip. However, the coach, director, or advisor may limit participation
after the student's return if the student's absence in fact resulted in
a material lack of preparedness or physical conditioning. If any
limitation is imposed, the coach, director, or advisor shall immediately
advise the student of the nature of, and reason(s) for, such limits, and
shall assist the student in normalizing his/her level of participation
as quickly as possible. Prior to missing practice or upon return to the
practice, the student shall present a written statement signed by the
parent or guardian.

### SELECTION OF COACHES, DIRECTORS, AND ADVISORS

Whether employed by the District or approved volunteers, such persons
hold an important responsibility for the personal growth and well-being
of each participating student.

Every coach, director, and advisor is expected to provide guidance to
students through both instruction and example, in a manner which clearly
supports the District's philosophy of education specifically:

A. promoting the development of a strong and positive sense of
self-worth in each participant;

B. motivating each individual student by creating building blocks of
successful activity.

Coaches, directors, and advisors will be largely evaluated on the basis
of their success in meeting the needs of students in the above areas.
Coaches, directors, and advisors whose motivational techniques are
negative, verbally abusive, derogatory, or predominantly disciplinary
will not satisfy the requirements of the School District, regardless of
their competitive success.

### Team Physicians

To ensure the well-being of students participating in inter-scholastic
athletics, the Board authorizes the Superintendent to arrange for a team
physician(s) for those athletic activities in which injury is most
likely to occur. The Board directs that only one (1) physician be
assigned to each event, although more than one (1) physician may be used
on a rotating basis to cover the various events. Additionally, the Board
shall not recognize other health professionals such as dentists,
optometrist, etc., in a "team" capacity.

Each approved team physician must:

A. be licensed to practice medicine in the State of Ohio;

B. be a resident of and/or practice in the District;

C. agree to serve on a voluntary basis;

D. provide documentation of adequate malpractice insurance;

E. agree to abide by relevant Board policies and administrative
procedures of the Superintendent.

R.C. 3313.53, 3315.062\
 A.C. 3301-35-03

Revised 3/13/90\
 Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 8/11/92\
 Revised 4/23/93\
 Revised 4/5/94\
 Revised 4/26/94\
 Revised 6/23/98\
 Revised 2/25/99\
 Revised 12/21/99\
 Revised 3/28/01\
 Revised 4/29/03
