---
layout: default
title: 2416 - STUDENT PRIVACY AND PARENTAL ACCESS TO INFORMATION
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education respects the privacy rights of parents and their
children. No student shall be required, as a part of the school program
or the District's curriculum, without prior written consent of the
student (if an adult, or an emancipated minor) or, if an unemancipated
minor, his/her parents, to submit to or participate in any survey,
analysis, or evaluation that reveals information concerning:

A. political affiliations or beliefs of the student or his/her parents;

B. mental or psychological problems of the student or his/her family;

C. sex behavior or attitudes;

D. illegal, anti-social, self-incriminating or demeaning behavior;

E. critical appraisals of other individuals with whom respondents have
close family relationships;

F. legally recognized privileged and analogous relationships, such as
those of lawyers, physicians, and ministers;

G. religious practices, affiliations, or beliefs of the student or
his/her parents; or

H. income (other than that required by law to determine eligibility for
participation in a program or for receiving financial assistance under
such a program).

The Superintendent shall ensure that procedures are established whereby
parents may inspect any materials used in conjunction with any such
survey, analysis, or evaluation.

Further, parents have the right to inspect, upon request, a survey or
evaluation created by a third party before the survey/evaluation is
administered or distributed by the school to the student. The parent
will have access to the survey/evaluation within a reasonable period of
time after the request is received by the building principal.

No survey or evaluation containing one or more of the items listed in
A-H above will require student signatures. The principal will inform
parents of such a survey/evaluation or of a survey/evaluation created by
a third party prior to disbursement by sending notification of such
surveys/evaluations home with the students. The parent may contact the
principal if s/he wants to preview the survey/evaluation before hand, or
deny participation by his/her child.

Additionally, parents have the right to inspect, upon request, any
instructional material used as part of the educational curriculum of the
student. The parent will have access to the instructional material
within a reasonable period of time after the request is received by the
building principal. The term instructional material means instructional
content that is provided to a student, regardless of its format,
including printed and representational materials, audio-visual
materials, and materials in electronic or digital formats (such as
materials accessible through the Internet). The term does not include
academic tests or assessments.

The Board will not allow the collection, disclosure, or use of personal
information collected from students for the purpose of marketing or for
selling that information (or otherwise providing that information to
others for that purpose).

The Superintendent is directed to provide notice directly to parents of
students enrolled in the District of the substantive content of this
policy at least annually at the beginning of the school year, and within
a reasonable period of time after any substantive change in this policy.
In addition, the Superintendent is directed to notify parents of
students in the District, at least annually at the beginning of the
school year, of the specific or approximate dates during the school year
when the following activities are scheduled or expected to be scheduled:

A. Activities involving the collection, disclosure, or use of personal
information collected from students for the purpose of marketing or for
selling that information (or otherwise providing that information to
others for that purpose); and

B. The administration of any survey by a third party that contains one
or more of the items described in A through H above.

For purposes of this policy, the term "parent" includes a legal guardian
or other person standing in loco parentis (such as a grandparent or
stepparent with whom the child lives, or a person who is legally
responsible for the welfare of the child).

A.C. 3301-35-02(C), 3301-35-01(D)(5)\
 20 U.S.C. 1232(g)(h)

Adopted 1/21/03
