---
layout: default
title: 2461 - RECORDING OF IEP TEAM MEETINGS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The recording of IEP Team meetings is prohibited unless it is necessary
in order for a parent to understand the IEP process and/or his/her
child's IEP, or otherwise necessary to implement other parental rights
under the IDEIA, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as
amended, and/or the Americans with Disabilities Act, as amended.

A. If a parent believes that audio recording an IEP Team meeting is
necessary, s/he should notify Director of Special Education] in writing,
preferably at least two (2) school days before the IEP Team meeting, of
his/her desire to audio record the meeting and the reason the recording
is required. The Director of Special Education will notify the parent at
least one (1) school day before the meeting if s/he intends to deny the
parent's request to record the meeting.

B. If the District representative denies the request, s/he will state in
writing the reasons for the denial. Authorized exceptions to the general
prohibition against the audio recording of IEP Team meetings will
typically involve situations when a parent or other IEP Team member has
a disability recognized under Section 504/ADA or a language barrier that
would preclude the individual's ability to understand and/or
meaningfully participate in the IEP process. The District representative
may ask for documentation of the existence of any such disability or
language barrier. If a parent is permitted to audio record the meeting,
s/he must use his/her own recording device and the District will
similarly record the meeting.

Video recording an IEP Team meeting is strictly prohibited.

If the District audio records an IEP Team meeting, the resulting
recording shall become a part of the student's educational record and
will be maintained in accordance with State and Federal law.

Adopted 6/28/11
