---
layout: default
title: 2451 - ALTERNATIVE SCHOOL PLANS/PROGRAMS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education recognizes that the regular school program may
not be appropriate for all students and that certain students may need
special programs to help them overcome attendance, academic, and/or
behavioral problems.

The Board authorizes the Superintendent to establish or to cooperate
with other Districts in establishing an alternative school, in
accordance with R.C. 3313.533, for grades 7-12. The purpose of the
alternative school will be to provide each student with a safe learning
environment conducive to increased self-esteem, improved social skills,
and higher academic achievement and/or a program to help students who
have recently been discharged or released from the custody of the
Department of Youth Services. At the alternative school, students will
be able to earn credits toward graduation in all academic subjects.

When considering a student for placement at the alternative school, at
least one (1) of the following criteria must be met:

A. The student has been or may be expelled form Springboro Community
City Schools.

B. The student has been suspended from Springboro Community City Schools
for five (5) or more days.

C. The student has been recommended for placement by juvenile court.

D. The student has attendance, academic, and/or behavioral problems
which, in the judgement of the Superintendent or designee, could be
effectively addressed in the alternative school setting.

Special consideration shall be given to students who have a current
Individualized Education Program, have special medical conditions,
and/or are known to have a chemical dependency.

The availability of this option is dependent upon the financial ability
of the Board of Education to support the alternative school program.

R.C. 3313.533

Adopted 3/22/99\
 Revised 9/27/05
