---
layout: default
title: 2411 - GUIDANCE AND COUNSELING
---

{{ page.title }}
================

A planned program of guidance and counseling shall be an integral part
of the educational program of the schools.

The guidance and counseling program recognizes the worth of all
individuals. Its overriding commitment is to involve all students in a
systematic and comprehensive plan to make the most of their academic,
personal, and career development. The interrelated commitments of
parents, teachers, administrators, and other citizens of the community
to providing effective guidance and counseling services to students are
an important and recognized part of the program.

Students shall be provided educational and vocational opportunities
compatible with their abilities and interests. They will be assisted in
developing self-reliance, personal direction, and social responsibility.
The guidance and counseling program shall be coordinated with the
classroom teacher, who occupies a central role in the educational
process.

General Objectives

The guidance program and its services shall be supportive of those
educational experiences of youth which help them develop the skills
necessary to make intelligent decisions regarding their personal
behavior, interaction with other people, and confidence to face the
world.

These guidance experiences shall:

A. help students develop maximum education, career, civic, personal, and
social potential;

B. provide a cooperative program that involves counselors,
administrators, students, teachers, other school staff, parents, and
community members;

C. assist school personnel in developing high expectations for each
student's educational, social, personal, and career achievements;

D. create an awareness and an understanding, and effective
decision-making system regarding the effects of drugs, alcohol, and
tobacco.

The Superintendent shall develop a plan for comprehensive guidance
services that provides for student appraisal, counseling, educational
career planning, referral, and staff consultations.

R.C. 2151.421, 2317.02(G)\
 A.C. 3301-35-03

R.C./A.C. Revised 1/88
