3122.01 - DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE
=============================

### Purpose

The Board of Education believes that quality education is not possible
in an environment affected by illegal drug use and/or abuse of alcoholic
beverages. The Board has established and maintains a drug/alcohol-free
educational setting in full compliance with Federal, State, and local
laws, including the Drug-Free Workplace Act and the Drug-Free Schools
and Communities Act.

### Employee Assistance Program

Recognizing that chemical dependency is a treatable illness which should
be dealt with by treatment and education, it is the Board's policy to
prevent chemical dependency and/or offer rehabilitation, rather than to
merely discipline employees for substance abuse related problems. To
that end, the Board and the Association have formed an Employee
Assistance Committee consisting of at least one (1) representative from
management, the SEA bargaining unit, the SCEA bargaining unit, and that
group of employees not represented by either SEA OR SCEA, to monitor the
Employee Assistance Program which is available to all Board employees
and their dependents.

The Board will work with an employee desiring chemical dependency
rehabilitation assistance on a voluntary basis. Applicable group health
plan coverages, sick leave benefits and leaves of absence policies are
available to assist employees who seek rehabilitation. Voluntary
rehabilitation and/or inquiries concerning rehabilitation will not be
used as evidence of a violation of any Board policy.

Where rehabilitation is offered by the Board in lieu of discipline, such
rehabilitation, if elected, is considered involuntary. Involuntary
rehabilitation shall be available only one (1) time during an employee's
tenure of employment with the Board, and shall not be available to any
employee in lieu of termination for operating any motor vehicle on Board
business under the influence of alcoholic beverages, or while currently
using illegal drugs.

### Prohibited Conduct

The unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation, possession, use,
or being under the influence of alcoholic beverages and/or controlled
substances (illegal drugs) by any employee, during working hours, on
Board premises, or at any activity or function sponsored by or related
to employment with the Board, is prohibited. "Premises" includes
vehicles owned by, or being driven on behalf of the Springboro Community
City School District, as well as parking lots, playgrounds, and other
property owned by Springboro Community City Schools. "Controlled
substance" refers to drugs subject to Federal or State regulation,
making their manufacture, dispensation, distribution, possession or use
a crime, this includes but is not limited to Cannabis, Cocaine,
Amphetamines, Barbiturates, and Heroine. Medications used as prescribed
by a treating physician or dentist are excluded.

### Drug-Related Criminal Conviction

Employees convicted (including a guilty or no contest plea) of violating
any Federal, State, or local criminal drug law, where the violation
occurred during work hours, or on Board premises, must report the
conviction to the Superintendent within five (5) business days of a
conviction. Where said criminal offense is a minor misdemeanor, the
employee shall be referred for involuntary rehabilitation in lieu of a
five (5) day suspension without pay. Failure to participate in
rehabilitation or a subsequent conviction for minor misdemeanors will
result in discipline, up to and including termination, in accordance
with contractual and statutory provisions. Failure to report the
conviction(s) will result in termination.

### Penalties

Violations of the Board's Drug/Alcohol Free Schools Policy will result
in discipline up to and including termination in accordance with
contractual and/or statutory provisions.

### Drug-Free Awareness Program

The Employee Assistance Program referenced in this section will include
educational opportunities for employees to obtain information on the
dangers of substance abuse and resources available for chemical
dependency and rehabilitation. In the meantime, information on drug and
alcohol counseling, rehabilitation sources, and re-entry programs, and
benefits available to employees in dealing with substance abuse problems
will be maintained in the District.

### Drug Testing

Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring an employee to
submit to urinalysis tests for controlled substances; however, it is
understood that the Board may require such tests to the extent testing
is required by Federal or State law. In the event such testing is
required, the parties will meet and confer regarding the facility or
facilities to be used to perform such tests.

### Confidentiality

Information provided to administrative personnel concerning medical
problems related to substance abuse or chemical dependency of an
employee shall be considered part of the employee's medical record, and
shall be treated as confidential. However, performance problems,
attendance or rules violations will be documented, reported or otherwise
treated as ordinary personnel information even if related to substance
abuse or chemical dependency.

Chemically dependent employees are urged to seek help before their
dependence causes problems with their jobs.

### Notification

At the beginning of each school year, all employees will receive a copy
of the Drug/Alcohol policy which includes the disciplinary sanctions and
a description of the Employee Assistance Program. The annual review of
this section of Board policy will emphasize that compliance is
mandatory.

41 U.S.C. 701 et seq., Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988\
 20 U.S.C. 3224A

Adopted 5/14/91\
 Revised 6/8/93\
 Revised 12/21/99
