---
layout: default
title: 3131 - REDUCTION IN STAFF
---

{{ page.title }}
================

It is the responsibility of the Board of Education to provide
appropriate staffing levels for the implementation of the educational
program of the District and the operation of the schools and to do so
efficiently and economically.

The Board reserves the right to reduce positions and to suspend the
contracts of staff members pursuant to such reduction whenever reasons
of decreased enrollment of students, return to duty of regular
professional staff members after leaves of absence, suspension of
schools or territorial changes affecting the District, or financial
reasons so warrant. In lieu of suspending an entire contract, the Board
may suspend the contract of a staff member in part and provide a level
of compensation commensurate with the percentage of work performed.

In making any such reduction, the Board will suspend contracts in
accordance with the recommendation of the Superintendent who shall,
within each teaching field affected, give preference first to teachers
on continuing contract Effective June 30, 2013, the Board shall not give
preference to any teacher based on seniority, except when making a
decision between teachers who have comparable evaluations.

Continuing contract teachers whose contracts are suspended shall have a
right to restoration of employment in order of seniority of service in
the District if and when teaching positions become vacant or are created
for which any such teachers are or become qualified. No continuing
contract teacher whose contract has been suspended will forfeit such
right to restoration by reason of having declined recall to a position
that is less than full-time or, if the teacher was not employed
full-time prior to the suspension of his/her contract, to a position
requiring a lesser percentage of employment than s/he previously held
with the District.

For covered employees, such reduction shall be in accordance with the
terms of the negotiated, collectively-bargained agreement(s) entered
into prior to September 29, 2005. Reductions occurring under collective
bargaining agreements entered into by the District after September 29,
2005, will be in accordance with the terms of the collective bargaining
agreement(s), but only to the extent that such terms do not conflict
with the requirements of Section 3319.17 of the Ohio Revised Code as
described above.\

R.C. 3319.17

Adopted 7/25/06\
 Revised 8/14/12
