3120 - EMPLOYMENT OF TEACHING STAFF
===================================

Employment of all personnel will be by the Board upon the recommendation
of the Superintendent. Upon formal action of the Board to employ a staff
member, a written contract will be entered into between the Board and
the employee for the services and compensation associated with the
specific position.

Relatives of Board members may be employed by the Board, provided the
member of the Board involved does not participate in any way in the
discussion or vote on the employment of his/her relative. All such
persons shall be employed only if they are the best candidate for the
position and not on the basis of the relationship to a Board member.

Spouses of current employees of the Board may be considered for
employment in the District, providing there is no direct
superior/subordinate relationship between the couple in the work
environment.

Applications for employment will not be accepted from any current Board
member. If a Board member wishes to apply for a position, his/her
resignation must be accepted by the Board prior to submitting an
application and the Board member must not use or attempt to use his/her
official authority or influence to secure the employment position.

Any employee misstatement of fact material to qualifications for
employment or the determination of salary shall be considered by this
Board to constitute grounds for dismissal.

The Superintendent or his/her designee may, upon advance notice of the
Board, authorize selected staff to begin work prior to approval by the
Board when their employment is required to maintain continuity in the
educational program. Employment shall be recommended to the Board at the
next regular meeting.

All staff appointed by the Board are required to supply the
Superintendent evidence of proper certification.

Certificated staff must also pass a background check performed by the
Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation and the Federal
Bureau of Investigation (see Policy [**3121**](po3121.md)).

### REQUIREMENTS FOR TEACHERS

All teachers shall be "highly qualified."

"Highly Qualified" means:

A. Full State certification as a teacher (including an alternative
educator license) or passed State teacher licensing exam and holds
current license to teach; certification or license requirements may not
be waived on a temporary basis

B. For elementary teachers new to the profession, this also requires:

​1. at least a bachelor's degree

​2. passing a rigorous State test on subject knowledge and teaching
skills in reading, writing, math, and other areas of elementary
curriculum (State certification test may suffice)

C. For secondary or middle school teachers new to the profession this
also requires:

​1. at least a bachelor's degree, and

​2. passing a rigorous State test in each of the subject areas s/he will
teach (State certification test may suffice), or

​3. for each academic subject taught, having an academic major, course
work equivalent to an undergraduate major, a graduate degree, or
advanced certification or credentialing

D. For elementary, middle, or secondary school teachers with prior
experience, this also requires;

​1. at least a bachelor's degree, and

​2. meets standards for new teachers (above), or

​3. demonstrates competence in all academic subjects s/he teaches based
on a uniform State standard of evaluation (standard for academic subject
matter and teaching skills set by the State)

R.C. 2909.34, 2921.01, 2921.42, 3319.02, 3319.07, 3319.11\
 R.C. 3319.23 - .282, 3319.283, 3319.301, 3319.39\
 20 U.S.C. 6319\
 20 U.S.C. 7801

Revised 4/23/93\
 Revised 7/25/06\
 Revised 1/23/07\
 Revised 11/18/08\
 Revised 2/14/13
