---
layout: default
title: 3120.06 - SELECTING STUDENT TEACHERS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education encourages cooperation with State-approved
colleges and universities in the training of student teachers within the
limits of the capacity of District personnel to supervise the students.

Colleges and universities shall first make contact with the
Superintendent or his/her designee regarding placement of a student
teacher. The Superintendent or his/her designee will direct the final
placement of student teachers.

The supervising teacher shall hold no less than a standard certificate
and shall have had no less than three (3) years of successful teaching
experience in the area of assignment. Any exception shall be made within
the current guidelines set forth in "Laws and Regulations Governing the
Certification of Teachers."

The certificated personnel of the Board who agree to serve as
supervisors of teacher education students may accept an honorarium or
stipend directly from the college or university for those services
rendered outside the regular school day, and above and beyond the duties
and responsibilities specified in their teaching contract.

The following conditions shall also be met:

A. The institution making the assignment shall provide adequate
follow-up supervision.

B.

If at any time the quality of student teaching is judged to be inferior
or disruptive to the ongoing class program by the supervising teacher or
principal, the Superintendent or his/her designee may request withdrawal
of the student teacher.

Student teachers and administrative interns also must pass a background
check performed by the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (see Policy
[**3121**](po3121.md)).

R.C. 2909.34, 3319.282, 3319.39

Revised 1/23/07\
 Revised 11/18/08\
 Revised 2/14/13
