---
layout: default
title: 3120.08 - EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONNEL FOR CO-CURRICULAR/EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education may employ professional staff for
co-curricular/extra-curricular activities. However, the Board may find
it necessary to employ, on a part-time basis, coaches or activity
sponsors who are not members of the professional staff. Such part-time
employees may be members of the District's classified staff or
individuals from the community or nearby areas. The Board authorizes the
Superintendent to recommend candidates for employment by the Board.

Each coach or activity sponsor shall hold a valid Pupil Activity Program
Permit issued by the State Board of Education under R.C. 3319.303(A),
have any other necessary qualifications, have been properly interviewed,
and shall sign an employment contract which includes the conditions of
employment, compensation arrangements, and contract termination
procedures.

Personnel employed as a coach or activity sponsor must also pass a
background check performed by the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (see Policy
[**3121**](po3121.md)).

The Board may renew the contract of any nonlicensed individual,
currently employed by the Board for one or more years, without first
offering the position held by that individual to employees of the
District who are licensed individuals or advertising the position as
available to any qualified licensed individuals who are not currently
employed by the Board unless otherwise prohibited by a collective
bargaining agreement.

No individual employed by the Board for any co-curricular or
extra-curricular activity may accept compensation from any third party
or source, including, but not limited to booster, parent or other
District support organizations, for the performance of his/her official
duties or as a supplement to his/her compensation from the Board.

No individual serving as a volunteer for co-curricular/extra-curricular
activities may accept compensation from any third party or source,
including, but not limited to booster, parent or other District support
organizations, for the performance of his/her official duties as a
volunteer on behalf of the Board.

R.C. 2909.34, 3319.303, 3313.53, 3319.39\
 A.C. 3301-27-01, Ohio Ethics Commission Advisory Opinion 2008-01

Revised 1/23/07\
 Revised 10/9/07\
 Revised 11/18/08\
 Revised 2/14/13
