3140 - TERMINATION AND RESIGNATION
==================================

### TERMINATION

The employment contract of a professional staff member may be suspended
and/or terminated in accordance with law, upon a majority vote of the
Board of Education, for good and just cause, including disclosing a
question to a student on a State-mandated assessment. In such cases, the
Board shall abide by due process, statutory procedures, and the
applicable terms set forth in any collectively-bargained agreement.

### RESIGNATION

A professional staff member may resign in accordance with law and the
applicable terms of any collectively-bargained agreement.

A resignation, once accepted by the Board, may not then be rescinded.

### Reporting Professional Misconduct

The Superintendent (or Board President where either the Superintendent
and/or Treasurer has engaged in misconduct) will file a report to the
Ohio Department of Education, on forms provided by the Department for
that purpose, matters of professional misconduct on the part of licensed
professional staff members in those specific circumstances set forth in
State law and Policy [**8141**](po8141.md), including a conviction of
the professional staff member of certain enumerated crimes and/or for
conduct which is determined to be unbecoming to the teaching profession
in conjunction with the non-renewal or termination of a professional
staff member, or resignation by a professional staff member under threat
of same and/or during the course of an investigation of conduct
reasonably determined to be unbecoming the teaching profession.

Reports of any investigation regarding whether or not a professional
staff member has committed an act or offense for which the
Superintendent or Board President is required to make a report to the
Ohio Department of Education shall be kept in the personnel file of the
professional staff member. Should the Ohio Department of Education
determine that the results of that investigation do not warrant
initiating an action suspending, revoking, or otherwise limiting that
professional staff member's license or permit, the report(s) of any
investigation will be moved to a separate public file.

R.C. 3319.02, 3319.15, 3319.151, 3319.16, 3319.161, 3319.31, 3319.313\
 R.C. 3319.39\
 A.C. 3301-73-21

Revised 2/4/09\
 Revised 2/22/11
