---
layout: default
title: 3120.04 - EMPLOYMENT OF SUBSTITUTES
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education recognizes the need to procure the services of
substitutes in order to continue the operation of the schools as a
result of the absence of regular personnel.

The Superintendent or his/her designee shall employ substitutes for
assignment as services are required to replace temporarily absent
regular staff members and fill new positions. Such assignment of
substitutes may be terminated when their services are no longer
required.

Substitutes must possess a valid Ohio professional license or substitute
license, unless the Superintendent believes the person's application
information indicates the person has the qualifications to receive a
teacher's license. Such a person may be employed on a conditional basis
for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days from the date the person
submits a request for a license to the Department of Education through
the date the Superintendent receives the person's valid teaching
license. If the license is not delivered within the time period, the
person's employment is to be terminated.

Substitutes also must pass a background check performed by the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (see Policy [**3121**](po3121.md)).

Substitutes may be required to undergo a tuberculosis examination in
accordance with law and at the direction of the Ohio Department of
Health or the local health department.

In order to retain well-qualified substitutes for service in this
District, the Board will offer competitive compensation at a rate set by
the Board.

A substitute employed for more than sixty (60) days in one (1) specific
position will be placed at the minimum salary on the current teachers'
salary schedule (e.g. BA/0) and will be eligible for fringe benefits
provided regular staff members.

Daily substitutes shall not earn sick leave nor be paid for days when
students are not required to attend school.

R.C. 2909.34, 3307.381(A), 3317.13, 3319.10, 3319.39

Revised 4/23/93\
 Revised 12/21/99\
 Revised 1/23/07\
 Revised 11/18/08\
 Revised 2/14/13
