3161 - UNREQUESTED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
====================================

It is the policy of the Board of Education to protect the students and
staff of this District from exposure to certificated staff members who
are not well.

The Board reserves the right to place a certificated staff member on
unrequested leave of absence or retire a certificated staff member for
physical or mental disability to perform assigned duties.

In the case of a certificated staff member who, in the opinion of the
Superintendent, is unable to function properly in this District by
reason of physical or mental dysfunction, the certificated staff member
will be offered the opportunity for a hearing conducted in accordance
with law governing termination hearings. In cases where the health of
students or employees may be jeopardized, the Superintendent may at any
time place the employee on paid leave until the risk is substantiated or
disproved.

If a certificated staff member fails to comply with the Superintendent's
recommendation or fails to request an appearance before the Board within
the time allowed, the Board shall order the certificated staff member to
submit to an appropriate examination by:

A. a physician designated and recompensed by the Board;

B.

a physician or institution of the certificated staff member's choice and
at the certificated staff member's expense.

Where the physician designated by the Board disagrees with the physician
designated by the certificated staff member, the two (2) physicians
shall agree in good faith on a third impartial physician who shall
examine the employee and whose medical opinion shall be conclusive and
binding on the issue of medical capacity to perform the essential
functions. The expenses of a third examination shall be borne by the
Board.

If, as a result of such examination, the certificated staff member is
found to be unable to perform essential functions, the certificated
staff member shall be placed on leave of absence until proof of
recovery, satisfactory to the Superintendent, is furnished.

Should a certificated staff member refuse to submit to the examination
requested by the Board and the certificated staff member has exercised
his/her rights under the provisions hereinabove set forth, such refusal
shall subject the certificated staff member to disciplinary action that
may include procedures for termination of a contract.

R.C. 3319.13, 3319.16\
 29 C.F.R. Part 1630\
 29 C.F.R. Part 163542 U.S.C. 12101 et seq., Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990\
 42 U.S.C. 2000ff et seq., The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act

Revised 11/30/93\
 Revised 5/11/10
