---
layout: default
title: 3213 - STUDENT SUPERVISION AND WELFARE
---

{{ page.title }}
================

Professional staff members shall maintain a standard of care for the
supervision, control, and protection of students commensurate with their
assigned duties and responsibilities and are expected to establish and
maintain professional staff/student boundaries that are consistent with
their legal, professional and ethical duty of care for students.

The Superintendent shall maintain and enforce the following standards:

A. A professional staff member shall report immediately to a building
administrator any accident, safety hazard, or other potentially harmful
condition or situation s/he detects.

B. A professional staff member shall provide proper instruction in
safety matters as presented in assigned course guides.

C. Each professional staff member shall immediately report to a building
administrator knowledge of threats of violence by students.

D. A professional staff member shall not send students on any personal
errands.

E. A professional staff member shall not associate or fraternize with
students at any time in a manner that may give the appearance of
impropriety, including, but not limited to, the creation or
participation in any situation or activity that could be considered
abusive or sexually suggestive or involve harmful substances such as
illegal drugs, alcohol or tobacco. Any sexual or other inappropriate
conduct with a student by any staff member will subject the offender to
potential criminal prosecution and disciplinary action by the Board up
to and including termination of employment.

F. If a student approaches a staff member to seek advice or to ask
questions regarding a personal problem related to sexual behavior,
substance abuse, mental or physical health, and/or family relationships,
etc., the staff member may attempt to assist the student by facilitating
contact with certified or licensed individuals in the District or
community who specialize in the assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of
the student's stated problem. However, under no circumstances should a
staff member attempt, unless properly licensed and authorized to do so,
to counsel, assess, diagnose, or treat the student's problem or
behavior, nor should such staff member inappropriately disclose
personally identifiable information concerning the student to third
persons not specifically authorized by law.

G. A professional staff member shall not transport students in a private
vehicle without the approval of the principal.

H. A student shall not be required to perform work or services that may
be detrimental to his/her health.

I. Staff members shall only engage in electronic communication with
students via email, texting, social media and/or online networking
media, such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, MySpace, Skype, blogs, etc.,
when such communication is directly related to curricular matters or
co-curricular/extracurricular events or activities with prior approval
of the principal.

J. Staff members are prohibited from electronically transmitting any
personally identifiable image of a student(s), including video,
photographs, streaming video, etc. via email, text message, or through
the use of social media and/or online networking media, such as
Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, MySpace, Skype, blogs, etc., unless such
transmission has been made as part of a pre-approved curricular matter
or co-curricular/extracurricular event or activity such as a
school-sponsored publication or production in accordance with Policy
[**5722**](po5722.md).

Since most information concerning a child in school other than directory
information described in Policy [**8330**](po8330.md), is confidential
under Federal and State laws, any staff member who shares confidential
information with another person not authorized to receive the
information may be subject to discipline and/or civil liability. This
includes, but is not limited to, information concerning assessments,
grades, behavior, family background, and alleged child abuse.

Pursuant to the laws of the State and Board Policy
[**8462**](po8462.md), each professional staff member shall report to
the proper legal authorities immediately, any sign of suspected child
abuse or neglect.

R.C. 2907.03

Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 12/21/99\
 Revised 1/13/04\
 Revised 6/28/11
