---
layout: default
title: 3419.02 - PRIVACY PROTECTIONS OF FULLY INSURED GROUP HEALTH PLANS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education provides coverage to eligible employees under
fully insured group health plans.

The Board acknowledges that these group health plans are required to
comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
(HIPAA) Privacy Rule, as amended by Title I of the Genetic Information
Nondiscrimination Act (GINA). Fully insured group health plans generally
are exempt from many of the requirements imposed upon self-funded group
health plans.

The fully insured group health plans established by the Board shall:

A. Refrain from taking any retaliatory action against any individual
from exercising any right under the plan, filing a complaint with Health
and Human Services, participating in any proceeding under Part C of
Title XI of the Social Security Act, or opposing any act or practice
made unlawful by the Privacy Rule provided that the individual has a
good faith belief that the practice opposed is unlawful.

B. Not impose a requirement that participants waive their rights under
the Privacy Rule as a condition of the provision of payment, enrollment
in a health plan, or eligibility of benefits.

C. If the plan document is amended in accordance with the Privacy Rule,
the plan must retain a copy of the plan document as amended for six (6)
years from the date of its amendment or the date when it last was in
effect, whichever is later.

Fully insured group health plans established by the Board shall not
create or receive protected health information, except for:

A. Summary health information. Summary health information is
de-identified information that summarizes claims history, claims
expenses, or type of claims experienced by health plan participants.

B. Information on whether an individual is participating in a group
health plan, or is enrolled in or has disenrolled from a health
insurance issuer or HMO offered by the plan.

29 C.F.R. Part 1635\
 42 U.S.C. 2000ff et seq., The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act

Adopted 1/13/04\
 Revised 5/11/10
