4139 - STAFF DISCIPLINE
=======================

The Superintendent retains the right and the responsibility to manage
the work force. When the discipline of a staff member becomes necessary,
such action shall be in proportion to the employee's offense or
misconduct, consistent with appropriate procedural and substantive due
process, State law, and/or the specific provision of any appropriate
collective bargaining agreement.

The Superintendent and/or designee will file a report with the Ohio
Department of Education, in accordance with Policy
[**8141**](po8141.htm) and State law, concerning certain non-teaching
employees who are also licensed by the Ohio Department of Education
(e.g., aides with a permit, paraprofessionals with a license, and those
individuals who do not hold a valid educator's license but who are
employed by the Board under a Student Activity Permit) who plead guilty
to or who are convicted of certain specified crimes and/or where it is
reasonably determined that such certain non-teaching employee has
engaged in conduct which is unbecoming the teaching profession under
certain specific circumstances as defined therein.

All other non-teaching employees who are the subjects of a criminal
records check as set forth in Policy [**4121**](po4121.htm) and Policy
8142, including applicants hired provisionally in advance of a completed
criminal records check, as well as employees engaged to operate a
vehicle for student transportation (bus/van drivers), and/or individuals
employed by a private company under contract with the Board to provide
essential school services and who will work within the District in a
position which does not require a license issued by the State Board of
Education, is not for the operation of a vehicle for student
transportation, and involves routine interaction with a child or regular
responsibility for the care, custody or control of a child, who it is
determined have pled guilty to or been convicted of any offense
enumerated under R.C. 3319.39(B)(1), shall not be hired or shall be
released from employment, as applicable, unless such individual meets
the rehabilitation standards adopted by the Department of Education
under division (E) of that section. At the time of the hiring and/or
upon discovery of such plea or conviction by the Board.

In the case of employees hired by the Board to operate a vehicle used
for student transportation (i.e., bus/van drivers), a guilty plea or
conviction of a crime to any offense listed in R.C. 3319.31(C) will
serve as a bar to further employment with the Board and the
rehabilitation standards will not apply.

R.C. 124.34, 3319.081, 3319.31, 3319.313, 4117.08(C), 3319.391,
3319.392\
 R.C. 3327.10\
 A.C. 3301-73-21, 3301-20-01

Adopted 10/9/07\
 Revised 4/22/08\
 Revised 2/4/09
