---
layout: default
title: 4162 - DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING OF DRIVERS OF DISTRICT VEHICLES
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education believes that the safety of students while being
transported to and from school or school activities is of utmost
importance and is the primary responsibility of the driver of the school
vehicle. To fulfill such a responsibility, each driver, as well as
others who perform safety-sensitive functions with Board-owned and/or
operated ("Board-owned") vehicles must be mentally and physically alert
at all times while on duty. To that end, the Board has established this
policy and others related to employees' health and well-being.

For purposes of this policy and the guidelines associated with the
policy, the following definitions shall apply.

A. The term *illegal drug* means drugs and controlled substances, the
possession or use of which is unlawful, pursuant to Federal, State, and
local laws and regulations.

B. The term *controlled substance* includes any illegal drug and any
drug that is being used illegally, such as a prescription drug that was
not legally obtained or not used for its intended purposes or in its
prescribed quantity. The term does not include any legally-obtained
prescription drug used for its intended purpose in its prescribed
quantity unless such use would impair the individual's ability to safely
perform safety-sensitive functions.

C. The term *controlled substance abuse* includes excessive use of
alcohol as well as prescribed drugs not being used for prescribed
purposes, in a prescribed manner, or in the prescribed quantity.

D. The term *safety-sensitive functions* includes all tasks associated
with the operation and maintenance of Board-owned transportation
vehicles.

E. The term *CDL license holder* means all regular and substitute bus
drivers as well as other staff members who may drive students in
Board-owned vehicles or inspect, repair, and maintain Board-owned
transportation vehicles.

F. The term *while on duty* means all time from the time the CDL license
holder begins to work or is required to be in readiness for work until
the time s/he is relieved from work and all responsibility for
performing work.

The Board expects all CDL license holders to comply with Board Policy
4122.01 on Drug Free Schools which prohibits the possession, use, sale,
or distribution of alcohol and any controlled substance on school
property at all times. Further, the Board concurs with the Federal
requirement that all CDL license holders should be free of any influence
of alcohol or controlled substance while on duty.

The Board directs the Superintendent to establish a drug and alcohol
testing program whereby each regular and substitute bus driver, as well
as any other staff member who holds a CDL license, is tested for the
presence of alcohol in his/her system as well as for the presence of
controlled substances.

The tests are to be conducted, a) in accordance with Federal and State
regulations b.) prior to employment, c.) for reasonable cause, d.) upon
return to duty after any alcohol or drug rehabilitation, e.) after any
accident, f.) on a random basis, and g.) on a follow-up basis.

Any staff member who tests positive shall be prohibited from performing
or continuing to perform his/her safety-sensitive functions (e.g.,
driving any Board-owned transportation vehicle) and be referred to the
District's Employee Assistance Program.

Furthermore, if during any test the lab determines that an adulterant
has been added to the specimen, then the test will be considered
positive and the employee shall be prohibited from driving any school
vehicle and be referred to the District's Employee Assistance Program.

Any staff member who refuses to submit to a test shall be prohibited
from performing or continuing to perform his/her safety-sensitive
functions (e.g., driving any Board-owned transportation vehicle).

A.C. 3301-83-07\
 49 U.S.C. 2717\
 49 C.F.R. 382.101 et seq.

Adopted 12/13/95\
 Revised 5/28/02\
 Revised 7/23/03\
 Revised 4/27/04
