---
layout: default
title: 4120 - EMPLOYMENT OF NONCERTIFICATED STAFF
---

{{ page.title }}
================

Employment of all personnel will be by the Board of Education upon the
recommendation of the Superintendent. Upon formal action of the Board to
employ a staff member, a written contract will be entered into between
the Board and the employee for the services and compensation associated
with the specific position.

The Board shall approve the employment, and also, when not covered by
the terms of a negotiated, collectively-bargained agreement, fix the
compensation and establish the term of employment for each
noncertificated staff member employed by the Board.

Relatives of Board members may be employed by the Board, provided the
member of the Board involved does not participate in any way in the
discussion or vote on the employment of his/her relative. All such
persons shall be employed only if they are the best candidate for the
position and not on the basis of the relationship to a Board member.

Spouses of current employees of the Board may be considered for
employment in the District, providing there is no direct
superior/subordinate relationship between the couple in the work
environment.

Applications for employment will not be accepted from any current Board
member. If a Board member wishes to apply for a position, his/her
resignation must be accepted by the Board prior to submitting an
application, and the Board member must not use or attempt to use his/her
official authority or influence to secure the employment position.

Any employee misstatement of fact material to qualifications for
employment or the determination of salary shall be considered by this
Board to constitute grounds for dismissal.

The Superintendent may, upon advance notice of the Board, authorize
selected staff to begin work prior to approval by the Board when their
employment is required to maintain continuity in the support services
program. Employment shall be recommended to the Board at the next
regular meeting.

All staff appointed by the Board are required to supply the
Superintendent evidence of proper certification, as required, and
evidence of a negative TB test.

Noncertificated staff members also must pass a background check
performed by the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation
(see Policy [**4121**](po4121.html)).

The Superintendent shall prepare procedures for the recruitment and
selection of all noncertificated staff.

### REQUIREMENTS FOR TITLE I PARAPROFESSIONALS

Employment of all paraprofessionals hired after January 8, 2002 for a
Title I supported program must have a secondary school diploma or its
recognized equivalent and one of the following:

"Highly Qualified" means:

A. Completed two (2) years study at an institution of higher education;
or

B. Obtained at least an associates degree; or

C. Met a rigorous standard of quality and demonstrate through formal
State or local academic assessment:

​1. knowledge of and the ability to assist in instructing, reading,
writing and mathematics; or

​2. knowledge of and the ability to assist in instructing, reading
readiness, writing readiness and mathematics readiness, as appropriate.

Exceptions - These requirements do not apply to a paraprofessional:

A. Who is proficient in English and a second language and serves as a
translator primarily to enhance the participation of children in Title I
programs; or

B. Whose duties consist solely of conducting parental involvement
activities.

Paraprofessional duties - Paraprofessionals working for a Title I
supported program may be assigned to duties not inconsistent with the
following:

A. providing one-on-one tutoring for eligible students during times when
the teacher would not otherwise be instructing the student;

B. assisting with classroom management, such as organizing instructional
and other materials;

C. providing assistance in a computer laboratory;

D. providing support in a library or media center;

E. conducting parental involvement activities;

F. acting as a translator;

G. provide instructional services to students, if working under the
direct supervision of a teacher; a paraprofessional will be considered
to be working under the "direct supervision" of a teacher if the:

​1. teacher plans the instructional activities that the paraprofessional
carries out;

​2. teacher evaluates the achievement of the students with whom the
paraprofessional is working;

​3. paraprofessional works in close and frequent physical proximity to
the teacher;

H. performing limited duties beyond classroom instruction or that do not
benefit program participants, so long as those duties are also assigned
to non-Title I paraprofessionals. Title I paraprofessionals may not be
assigned to more of these duties, proportional to their total work time,
than the amount assigned to similar non-Title I paraprofessionals in the
same school.

The provisions as set forth above do not apply to paraprofessionals
providing non-instructional service such as providing technical support
for computers, providing personal care services, or performing clerical
duties.

R.C. 2909.34, 3319.081, 3319.082, 3319.39\
 A.C. 3301-83-07\
 20 U.S.C. 6319

Revised 4/23/93\
 Revised 2/11/03\
 Revised 7/25/06\
 Revised 1/23/07\
 Revised 2/14/13
