---
layout: default
title: 4105 - INTERVIEW AND RECOMMENDATION
---

{{ page.title }}
================

It is the responsibility of the Superintendent to recommend suitable
candidates to the Board of Education for employment in all
noncertificated positions. In all cases, it will be the policy of the
Board to hire the best qualified applicant for the position regardless
of the background, experience, residence, and relationship to present
employees or members of the Board.

It is also the responsibility of the Superintendent to assure that
persons nominated for employment in the schools meet all state and local
requirements for the type of position for which the nomination is made.
All newly created positions must be approved by the Board.

With regard to new positions, the Board recognizes the need to
establish, from time-to-time, additional noncertified positions in order
to meet the District's support services needs.

A "Notice of Vacancy" will be prepared for all new and vacant positions
in the District. This "Notice of Vacancy" will set forth a description
of the position, performance expectations, minimum qualifications,
conditions of employment, and the procedure for making application.

Present staff will be considered for new and vacant positions according
to the procedures outlined in the negotiated agreement with the
Springboro Classified Employees Association.

Persons interested in seeking employment in the School District must
complete an Employment Application as available in the central office.
Applicants, depending upon position desired, may be asked to take an
aptitude or screening test as part of this application procedure. All
applications will remain active for six (6) months from the date of the
application.

Initial screening and interviewing of candidates for new and vacant
positions will be conducted by the Superintendent or other
administrators designated to do so by the Superintendent. The
Superintendent will conduct final interviews with all candidates to be
recommended for employment. References will be checked on all applicants
under final consideration and criminal background checks will be
conducted in accordance with State law. The Superintendent will make the
final decision regarding nomination of a person to the Board for
employment in the District.

The following general guidelines will be used in the selection of
personnel:

A. Concerted efforts will be made to maintain a variation in the staff
with respect to background, educational preparation, and previous
experience.

B. Interviewing and selection procedures will assure that the
administrator and/or supervisor directly responsible for the work of a
staff member has a key role in selection. The final recommendation of a
candidate for employment, however, will be made by the Superintendent.

C. All candidates will be considered on the basis of their merits,
minimum qualifications, and needs of the District. In each instance, the
Superintendent and others playing a role in the selection will seek to
recommend the best qualified person for the position, regardless of the
background, experience, residence, and relationship to present employees
or members of the Board of Education.

Adopted 4/23/93\
 Revised 11/30/93\
 Revised 12/21/99
