4122.04 - EMPLOYEE DISABILITY
=============================

**A. Disability Policy**

If an employee is disabled and requests an accommodation for that
disability, the Board of Education will determine whether the employee
could perform the essential functions of the job with some reasonable
accommodation. If so, the Board will make an appropriate accommodation.
If the Board cannot accommodate a disabled employee in his/her current
position, the Board may place the employee in an equivalent or a lower
available vacancy for which the employee is qualified; absent such, the
Board may place the employee on disability leave or separation under the
procedures for those benefits.

**B Travel Policy**

When considering any employee request for job-related travel, the
Employer will consider the special needs of employees with a permanent
disability that substantially affect the employee's ability to drive,
see, hear, etc. The Employer will not deny job-related travel to a
qualified employee with a disability merely because of the disability.

**C. Procedure**

If an employee claims a disability and requests an accommodation, the
Board should: (1) review the job description and essential function
statement with the employee; and (2) ask the employee whether the
employee can still perform the essential functions of the job with some
accommodation. If the employee answers in the affirmative, the Board
should ask the employee what accommodation s/he wants and whether any
other accommodation would also allow the employee to perform the
essential job functions. The Board may also consider accommodations that
are not suggested by the employee. The accommodation the Board selects
need only allow the employee to function, it need not be the best. Any
accommodation made must remain confidential, and will be treated as such
under the Board's other policies and procedures on confidential
information.

If the employee says s/he cannot do the job with an accommodation, the
Board may agree with the employee or may suggest an alternative course
of action. The Board may determine that some accommodation will allow
the employee to do the job to the Board's satisfaction, and the Board
may evaluate the employee using current performance standards. As a last
resort, the Board should consider reassignment to an equivalent or lower
existing vacancy where no other accommodation is possible and the
employee is able to perform the job in a satisfactory manner without an
accommodation. The Board may consult a medical advisor or other
appropriate licensed practitioner for verification.

When deciding whether an accommodation is reasonable, the Board may
consider among other things:

A. allowing use of leave entitlement for treatment;

B. allowing flexible hours;

C. providing transportation;

D. providing reserved parking spaces;

E. providing assistance from other employees;

F. allowing the employee to use his/her own equipment or aids; and

G. reassignment of job functions, though the Board need not assign
essential functions.

The Board does not have to allow more break time or promote an employee
as an accommodation.

Section 102 and 103 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990\
 Title I; Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1992\
 29 C.F.R. part 1630\
 34 C.F.R. parts 104 and 105

Adopted 11/30/93
