---
layout: default
title: 4121 - CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORD CHECK
---

{{ page.title }}
================

In accordance with State law, the Board of Education requires a criminal
background check including information from the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation (BCII) and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI) of each applicant the Superintendent recommends for
employment on the District's non-teaching staff as well as for all
current non-teaching employees on a periodic basis. These requirements
apply to any non-teaching employee, including individuals employed by a
private company under contract with the Board to provide essential
school services in accordance with Policy 8142, and all substitutes and
persons employed on a part-time basis such as coaches or activity
supervisors.

Special rules relating to employees engaged in the operation of a
vehicle for student transportation (bus/van drivers) and non-teaching
employees who are also licensed by the Ohio Department of Education
(e.g. aides with a permit, paraprofessionals with a license, and those
individuals who do not hold a valid educator's license but who are
employed by the Board under a student activity permit), are set forth
below.

A criminal background check is not required of any currently-employed
staff member who is a candidate for another position in the District,
unless otherwise required by law and/or this policy.

### Non-Teaching Employees Not Engaged in the Operation of a Vehicle for Student Transportation (Bus/Van Driver)

The Superintendent shall establish administrative guidelines which will
require an appropriate records check that complies with the law. These
guidelines shall require a criminal history records check, which will
include criminal history information from the Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI), at the time of an initial application and every
five (5) years thereafter on or before September 5th of the fifth year,
for current non-teaching employees every five (5) years on or before
September 5th of the fifth year, and for any individual employed by a
private company under contract with the Board to provide essential
school services as set forth in Policy 8142.

The guidelines shall also require that any information and records
obtained from such inquiries be kept confidential and shall not be
released or disseminated.

Should it be necessary to employ a person to maintain continuity of the
District's operations, prior to receipt of the criminal history record,
the Superintendent may, except in the case of a bus driver, employ the
person on a provisional basis until the report is received.

### Student Transportation Employees

The administrator in charge of transportation shall obtain a
satisfactory BCII report prior to hiring an individual as a new school
bus or school van driver, along with an FBI background check (i.e., an
FBI background check will also be required prior to hiring new
employees). An updated, satisfactory BCII report shall be obtained for
each school bus driver every six (6) years with driver re-certification.
"Satisfactory" shall be defined by the same standards applied to other
public school employees. Such records shall be maintained for a minimum
of six (6) years.

In addition to the required BCII check, a copy of each new school bus
driver's complete driving record must be obtained from the Ohio
Department of Education prior to allowing the school bus driver to
operate a school bus or school van for the first time. In accordance
with State transportation regulations, the Superintendent shall request
the administrator in charge of transportation to conduct at least a
semi-annual review of each school bus driver's (i.e., current bus
drivers and those newly hired bus drivers who remain employed with the
Board) driving record through the Ohio Department of Education to
determine that such drivers have:

A. no more than six (6) points within the last twenty-four (24) month
period;

B. not been convicted of driving while under the influence of alcohol
and/or a controlled substance during the past six (6) years (i.e., not
been convicted of a violation of R.C. 4511.19);

C. not received two (2) (or more) of the following serious traffic
violations as defined in R.C. 4506.01(DD)(1) through (DD)(7) during the
last twenty-four (24) month period:

​1. a single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit by
fifteen (15) miles per hour or more;

​2. violation of R.C. 4511.20 (i.e., operation in willful or wanton
disregard of the safety of persons or property) or 4511.201 (i.e.,
operation off street or highway in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property) or any similar ordinance or resolution,
or of any similar law of another state or political subdivision of
another state;

​3. violation of a law of this State or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, or of any
similar law of another state or political subdivision of another state,
that results in a fatal accident;

​4. violation of R.C. 4506.03 (i.e., commercial driver's license or
temporary instruction requirements) or a substantially similar municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any similar law of
another state or political subdivision of another state, that involves
the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver's license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific
vehicle group being operated for the passengers or type of cargo being
transported;

​5. violation of R.C. 4506.03 (i.e., commercial driver's license or
temporary instruction requirements) or a substantially similar municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any similar law of
another state or political subdivision of another state, that involves
the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver's license being in the person's possession;

​6. violation of R.C. 4511.33 (i.e., driving in marked lanes) or R.C.
4511.34 (i.e., space between moving vehicles) or any municipal ordinance
or county or township resolution substantially similar to either of
those sections, or any substantially similar law of another state or
political subdivision of another state;

​7. violation of any other law of this State or ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, that is
determined to be a serious traffic violation by the United States
Secretary of Transportation and the Director designates such by rule;
and

D. no railroad crossing violations during the last year (i.e., twelve
(12) month period);

E. not received any violations that render the bus driver uninsurable by
the District's Fleet Insurance Carrier.

The records obtained from the semi-annual records check will also be
maintained for a minimum of six (6) years.

If a school bus driver has any of the above-referenced violations, s/he
will be disqualified from operating a school bus. The bus driver will
also be notified that his/her school bus certification will be reviewed
by the Superintendent and his/her employment as a school bus driver may
be terminated.

If a school bus driver has an interruption in driving a school bus or
school van for a period of one (1) year or longer, s/he will not be
permitted to resume operating a school bus or school van until a copy of
the school bus driver's complete driving record has been obtained.

No driver who is convicted of a traffic violation or has his/her
commercial driver's license (CDL) suspended will be permitted to operate
a school bus or school van until the driver files a written notice of
the conviction or suspension. Such written notice must be immediately
filed with the Superintendent or administrator in charge of
transportation, irrespective of whether the traffic violation occurred
while operating a Board-owned vehicle or a private vehicle or during
school or non-school hours. Failure to file the required written notice
of conviction or suspension will result in the revocation of the
driver's certificate and/or disciplinary action, up to and including
termination.

Further, no bus driver will be permitted to drive a school bus or school
van unless s/he meets all other requirements contained in the rules
adopted by the Ohio Department of Education prescribing qualifications
of drivers of school buses and other student transportation. In
addition, no bus driver will be permitted to drive a school bus or
school van unless:

A. information pertaining to the bus driver has been submitted to the
Ohio Department of Education, including the name of the Board, name of
the bus driver, driver license number, date of birth, date of hire,
status of physical evaluation and status of training; and

B. a criminal records check, including information from the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, has been completed and received by the
Superintendent.

Similar to other applicants, a satisfactory BCII report and FBI
background check are required prior to the hiring of an individual as a
school bus aide for pre-school and special needs children. In addition,
the administrator in charge of transportation will obtain updated,
satisfactory criminal records reports for each school bus aide every six
(6) years. Satisfactory shall be defined by the same standards applied
to other non-certified public school employees. Such records shall also
be maintained for a minimum of six (6) years.

### Current Non-Teaching Employees Also Licensed by the Ohio Department of Education

Consistent with Policy [**8141**](po8141.md) and State law, certain
non-teaching employees who are also licensed by the Ohio Department of
Education (e.g., aides with a permit, paraprofessionals with a license,
and those individuals who do not hold a valid educator's license but who
are employed by the Board under a student activity permit) shall be
required to undergo a criminal record check as described in this policy,
upon renewal of any license, certificate or permit.

For these non-teaching employees, the Ohio Department of Education may
waive the requirements of a criminal background check for those
non-teaching employees who are also licensed by the State Department
seeking the issuance or renewal of a license, certificate of permit, who
have undertaken such process within the immediately preceding year.

### Effect of Guilty Plea and/or Conviction of Enumerated Crimes - All Non-Teaching Employees

Non-teaching employees who are also licensed by the Ohio Department of
Education (e.g., aides with a permit, paraprofessionals with a license,
and those individuals who do not hold a valid educator's license but who
are employed by the Board under a student activity permit) who engage in
conduct unbecoming the teaching profession and/or who it is determined
have pled guilty to or have been convicted of any offense enumerated
under R.C. 3319.39(B)(1) including a judicial finding for intervention
in lieu of conviction and/or participation in a pre-trial diversion
program relating to any of the offenses listed therein, are subject to
the mandatory reporting requirements set forth in Policy
[**8141**](po8141.md), in addition to an action by the Board to
terminate their employment. In addition, consistent with State law and
Policy [**4138**](po4138.md), the Superintendent shall immediately
suspend such licensed non-teaching employees from all duties that
require the care, custody, or control of a child during any pending
criminal action for which that licensed, non-teaching staff member has
been arrested, summoned and/or indicted for any crimes set forth in R.C.
3319.31(C).

All other non-teaching employees who are the subject of a criminal
records check including applicants hired provisionally in advance of a
completed criminal records check, as well as student transportation
employees (bus/van drivers, preschool and special needs bus aides),
and/or individuals employed by a private company under contract with the
Board to provide essential school services in accordance with Policy
8142, who it is determined have pled guilty to or been convicted of any
offense enumerated under R.C. 3319.39(B)(1) including a judicial finding
for intervention in lieu of conviction and/or participation in a
pre-trial diversion program relating to any of the offenses listed
therein, shall not be hired or shall be released from employment, as
applicable, unless such individual meets the rehabilitation standards
adopted by the Ohio Department of Education under division (E) of that
section at the time of the hiring and/or upon discovery of such plea or
conviction by the Board.

In the case of employees hired by the Board to operate a vehicle used
for student transportation (i.e., bus/van drivers), a guilty plea or
conviction of a crime to any offense listed in R.C. 3319.31(C) will
serve as a bar to further employment with the Board and the
rehabilitation standards will not apply.

### Suspension From Duties Involving Care, Custody or Control of a Child for Arrest, Summons and/or Indictment for Certain Crimes

In accordance with State law and Policy [**4138**](po4138.md), the
Superintendent (or Treasurer in the case of an employee whose duties are
assigned by the Treasurer) shall immediately suspend any non-licensed,
non-teaching employee from all duties that require the care, custody, or
control of a child during any pending criminal action for which that
staff member has been arrested, summoned and/or indicted for any crimes
listed under R.C. 3319.39(B)(1).

R.C. 109.57, 109.572, 2950, 2953.32, 3319.39, 3301.541, 3319.291,
3319.311\
 R.C. 3319.391, 3319.392, 3319.40, 3327.10\
 A.C. 3301-83-06 (B)(10), 3301-83-06 (F)(2), 3301-83-06 (F)(5)\
 A.C. 3301-83-10 (F), 3301-20-01, 4501-1-05

Revised 5/11/93\
 Revised 10/28/93\
 Revised 4/27/04\
 Revised 10/9/07\
 Revised 4/22/08\
 Revised 2/4/09
