---
layout: default
title: 4120.09 - VOLUNTEERS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education recognizes that certain programs and activities
can be enhanced through the use of volunteers who have particular
knowledge or skills that will be helpful to members of the classified
staff responsible for the conduct of those programs and activities.

The Superintendent or his/her designee shall be responsible for
recruiting community volunteers, reviewing their capabilities, and
making appropriate placements. S/He shall not be obligated to make use
of volunteers whose abilities are not in accord with District needs.

The Superintendent or his/her designee is to inform each volunteer that
s/he:

A. is required to abide by all Board policies and District guidelines
while on duty as a volunteer (including, but not limited to, the
volunteer's obligation to keep confidential and not release or permit
access to any and all student personally identifiable information to
which s/he is exposed except as authorized by law);

B. will be covered under the District's liability policy but the
District can not provide any type of health insurance to cover illness
or accident incurred while serving as a volunteer, nor is the person
eligible for workers' compensation;

C. may not accept compensation from any third party or source,
including, but not limited to booster, parent or other District support
organizations, for the performance of his/her official duties as a
volunteer on behalf of the Board.

Furthermore, the Superintendent shall inform all volunteers who work or
apply to work unsupervised with children on a regular basis of the need
to display appropriate behavior at all times, and that they will have to
provide a set of fingerprints so that a criminal records check can be
conducted and that they will have to pay the costs associated with the
criminal records check either before they begin their duties, or as a
condition of continued service as a volunteer at the discretion of the
Board.

If a criminal records check indicates that a volunteer has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to any of the offenses listed below
and/or described in R.C. 109.572 (A)(1), the volunteer will be informed
either that the Board is no longer interested in maintaining his/her
volunteer service or that the volunteer will be assigned to duties for
which s/he will not work unsupervised with children.

The Superintendent shall inform each volunteer of the District's
appreciation for his/her time and efforts in assisting in the operation
of the schools and for his/her understanding with regard to the need for
all volunteers to be subject to possible criminal records check.

### Offenses

No person is to be accepted or maintained as a volunteer if s/he has
been convicted of any of the following offenses:

A. aggravated murder, murder, voluntary manslaughter, involuntary
manslaughter

B. felonious assault, aggravated assault, assault

C. failing to provide for a functionally impaired person

D. aggravated menacing

E. patient abuse or neglect

F. kidnapping, abduction, child stealing, criminal child enticement

G. rape, sexual battery, corruption of a minor, gross sexual imposition,
sexual imposition, importuning, voyeurism, public indecency, felonious
sexual penetration, compelling prostitution, promoting prostitution,
procuring prostitution, disseminating matter harmful to juveniles,
pandering obscenity, pandering obscenity involving a minor, pandering
sexually oriented matter involving a minor, illegal use of minor in
nudity-oriented material or performance

H. aggravated robbery, robbery

I. aggravated burglary, burglary

J. abortion without informed consent

K. endangering children

L. contributing to the delinquency of children

M. domestic violence

N. carrying concealed weapons, having weapons while under disability,
improperly discharging firearm at or into a habitation or school

O. corrupting another with drugs

P. trafficking in drugs

Q. illegal manufacture of drugs or cultivation of marijuana

R. funding of drug or marijuana trafficking

S. illegal administration or distribution of anabolic steroids

T. drug possession offenses (that are not a minor drug possession
offense)

U. placing harmful objects in or adulterating food or confection

V. a felony

W. an offense of violence

X. a theft offense (as defined in R.C. 2913.01)

Y. a drug offense (as defined in R.C. 2925.01, that is not a minor
misdemeanor)

R.C. 109.574-7, 121.401-2, 3327.16, 3313.203, 3319.321\
 20 U.S.C. 1232g, 34 C.F.R. Part 99

Adopted 2/4/09
