---
layout: default
title: 4211 - WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education expects all its employees to be honest and
ethical in their conduct, and to comply with applicable State and
Federal law, Board policies and administrative guidelines. The Board
encourages staff, students, parents, guardians, and citizens to report
possible violations of those Board expectations to their immediate
supervisors.

It is the responsibility of an employee who is aware of conduct on the
part of any Board member or employee that possibly violates Federal or
State law, Board policy, or standards of ethical conduct to call this
conduct to the attention of his/her immediate supervisor. If the
employee's immediate supervisor is not responsive or is the employee
whose behavior is in question, the employee may report to the
Superintendent or Board President. Students who are aware of potential
violations of law, policy, or ethical conduct should discuss those with
their parent or guardian. Parents/guardians should report violations to
the building Principal, Superintendent, or Board President. Citizens
should report violations to the Superintendent or Board President.

After such a report is made by an employee, the immediate supervisor
will ask that employee's report be put in writing. Parents, guardians,
and citizens are encouraged to make reports in writing; however, reports
made by other means will also be investigated. Any employee, student,
parent, guardian, or citizen making such a report in good faith shall be
protected from discipline, retaliation, or reprisal for making such
report. However, employees are subject to disciplinary action, up to and
including termination, for purposely, knowingly, or recklessly making a
false report under this policy.

Employees found to have taken actions of retaliation or reprisal for a
report protected by this policy shall be subject to disciplinary action
up to and including dismissal.

The Superintendent may develop administrative guidelines as necessary
for implementation of this policy, including the development of forms
upon which such reports may be made.

R.C. 4113.52

Adopted 9/11/07\
 Revised 9/25/12
