4214 - STAFF GIFTS
==================

The Board of Education recognizes that occasionally students or parents
may feel motivated to give gifts of nominal value to non-certificated
employees as a gesture of fellowship or in thanks for some special help
given by the staff member. However, the Board does not encourage such
giving, nor may any employee encourage it.

Such gift-giving is acceptable only if the gift is negligible in
monetary value, and is given under circumstances in which it is clear
that the gift is not soliciting future favorable treatment from the
employee. The Superintendent may approve acts of generosity to
individual staff members in unusual circumstances.

The Board shall consider, as appropriate, presenting token gifts to
retiring members of the staff who have rendered outstanding service for
an extended period of time and who have earned the high regard of other
staff members and the community.

Non-certificated staff members shall not accept any form of compensation
from vendors that might influence their recommendations on the eventual
purchase of equipment, supplies, or services. Furthermore,
non-certificated staff members shall not accept any compensation from a
vendor after a decision has been made to purchase equipment, supplies,
or services from said vendor. In addition, non-certificated staff
members who recommend purchases shall not enter into a contractual
arrangement with a vendor seeking to do business with the District, or a
vendor with whom the District is doing business, whereby an individual
non-certificated staff member receives compensation in any form for
services rendered.

Such compensation includes, but is not limited to, cash, checks, stocks,
or any other form of securities, and gifts such as televisions,
microwave ovens, computers, discount certificates, travel vouchers,
tickets, passes, and other such things of value. In the event that a
non-certificated staff member receives such compensation, albeit
unsolicited, from a vendor, the non-certificated staff member shall
immediately notify the Treasurer, in writing, that s/he received such
compensation and shall thereafter promptly transmit said compensation to
the Treasurer.

Auditor of State Bulletin 2000-006

Revised 8/28/01
