---
layout: default
title: 5136 - WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Springboro Community City School District recognizes the value
wireless communication devices add to the educational experience of all
students, as well as aid in improving communication with parents.
Therefore, the possession and use of wireless communication devices
(WCDs) is permitted as described in this policy.

A "wireless communication device" is a device that emits an audible
signal, vibrates, displays a message, or otherwise summons or delivers a
communication or information to the possessor. The following devices are
examples of WCDs: cellular and wireless telephones, pagers/beepers,
personal digital assistants (PDAs), BlackBerries, Smartphones, tablet
personal computers, Wi-Fi enabled or broadband access devices, two-way
radios or video broadcasting devices, and other devices that allow a
person to record and/or transmit, on either a real time or delayed
basis, sound, video or still images, text, or other information.

Parents/Guardians are advised that the best way to get in touch with
their child during the school day is by calling the school office.

Students may use school phones to contact parents/guardians during the
school day with permission of the building administration.

MOBILE PHONES

Subject to the usage restrictions below, students may possess and use
cellular phones on school property, before school, after school, while
being transported on Board-provided vehicles, during after school
activities (e.g. extra-curricular activities), and at school related
functions. During school hours mobile phones are to be powered
completely off (i.e., not just placed into vibrate or silent mode) and
concealed and secured in lockers or vehicles. Except in an emergency,
students may not make or receive phone calls while riding on
Board-provided vehicles.

LAPTOPS, TABLETS, AND PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANTS (PDAs)

Students may possess and use a laptop, tablet, or PDA on school property
during school hours, provided that any cellular data access is disabled.
Students may only access the Internet on a device through a wireless or
direct connection to the District's filtered local area network (LAN).
Laptops, tablets, and PDA devices used in the classroom to access the
District's LAN shall be used for educational purposes only. Whether a
laptop, tablet, or PDA may be used in a particular classroom for a
specific assignment or project is subject to the discretion of each
teacher or staff member.

Students are personally and solely responsible for the care and security
of their WCDs. The Board assumes no responsibility for theft, loss,
damage, or vandalism to WCDs brought onto its property, or the
unauthorized use of such devices.

The building principal may approve teacher requests to permit use of
cellular phones in the classroom for educational purposes.

RULES OF USAGE

A. Students may use WCDs while riding to and from school on a school bus
or other vehicle provided by the Board or on a school bus or
Board-provided vehicle during school-sponsored activities, at the
discretion of the bus driver, classroom teacher and/or
sponsor/advisor/coach. Distracting behavior that creates an unsafe
environment will not be tolerated.

B. Students may not use WCDs on school property or at a school-sponsored
activity to access and/or view Internet web sites that are otherwise
blocked by the district's filter.

C. During after school activities when directed by the administrator,
teacher, coach, or sponsor, WCDs shall be powered completely off (not
just placed into vibrate or silent mode) and stored out of sight.

D. The requirement that WCDs must be powered completely off will not
apply when the student obtains prior approval from the building
principal.

E. Use that creates a distraction, disruption or otherwise interferes
with the educational environment is not permitted.

F. Use that endangers the health or safety of the student or anyone else
is not permitted.

G. Use that infringes the rights of others is not permitted.

H. Use that involves illegal or prohibited conduct of any kind is not
permitted.

I. Students are prohibited from using WCDs to capture, record or
transmit the words (i.e. audio) and/or images (i.e., pictures/video) of
any student, staff member or other person in the school or while
attending a school-related activity, without express prior notice and
explicit consent for the capture, recording or transmission of such
words or images. Using a WCD to take or transmit audio and/or
pictures/video of an individual without his/her consent is considered an
invasion of privacy and is not permitted, unless authorized by the
building principal.

J. WCDs with cameras (i.e. devices that take still or motion pictures
whether in a digital or other format), may not be possessed, activated
or utilized at any time in any school situation where a reasonable
expectation of personal privacy exists. These locations and
circumstances include but are not limited to locker rooms, shower
facilities, restrooms, and any other areas where students or others may
change clothes or be in any stage or degree of disrobing or changing
clothes.

K. Students are prohibited from using a WCD in any way that might
reasonably create in the mind of another person an impression of being
threatened, humiliated, harassed, embarrassed or intimidated. See Policy
5517.01 - Bullying and Other Forms of Aggressive Behavior.

L. Students are also prohibited from using a WCD to capture and/or
transmit test information or any other information in a manner
constituting fraud, theft, cheating, or academic dishonesty. Likewise,
students are prohibited from using their WCDs to receive such
information.

VIOLATIONS

Possession and use of a WCD by a student is a privilege that may be
forfeited by any student who fails to abide by the terms of this policy,
or otherwise engages in misuse of this privilege. A person who discovers
a student in possession of or using a WCD in violation of this policy is
required to report the violation to the building administrator.

By bringing wireless communication devices on school grounds, the
student consents that school officials may confiscate or search the
device if a student does not abide by the policy. Confiscation or search
of WCDs shall be limited as permitted in this policy. When a WCD is
confiscated, the student must surrender the entire device to the school
official. Any attempt to disassemble or lock the device, including
removing the battery, will be considered insubordination, in violation
of school policy.

Violations of this policy may result in disciplinary action and/or
confiscation of the WCD. The building principal may also refer the
matter to law enforcement if the violation involves an illegal activity
(e.g. child pornography). Discipline related to improper use of a WCD
will be imposed on an escalating scale ranging from a warning to
complete loss of the privilege to use a WCD during school functions.
Using a WCD in violation of other school rules will be punished based on
the nature and severity of the violation. For example, using a WCD to
bully or harass another individual will be punished as harassment.

If the WCD is confiscated, it will be released/returned to the student,
or in cases of severe violation to the student's parent/guardian, after
the student complies with any other disciplinary consequences that are
imposed. Any WCD confiscated by district staff will be marked in a
removable manner with the student's name and held in a secure location
in the building's central office until it is retrieved.

WCDs in District custody will not be searched or otherwise tampered with
unless school officials reasonably suspect that the search is required
to protect the safety or well-being of students or when school officials
reasonably suspect academic cheating or dishonesty. Any search must be
conducted by an administrator, and except in cases of extreme emergency,
any such search must be witnessed by another school employee, the
student, and if the student requests another school employee adult
selected by the student. The student's parent or guardian shall be
notified of the search. School officials shall inform the student of
his/her right to select a witness to the search. Any other search of a
WCD must be conducted in collaboration with law enforcement and with
prior knowledge of the student's parents.

School officials shall not delete, remove, or alter any information on a
WCD in district custody.

Adopted 8/1/11\
 Revised 5/8/12
