---
layout: default
title: 5112 - ENTRANCE AGE
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education shall establish entrance age requirements for
students which are consistent with statute and sound educational
practice and which ensure the equitable treatment of all eligible
children.

### Kindergarten

A child is eligible for entrance into kindergarten if s/he attains the
age of five (5) on or before the thirtieth (30th) day of September of
the year in which s/he applies for entrance.

The Board may admit to kindergarten such children as may be ineligible
by reason of age but demonstrate the ability and need to undertake an
accelerated program of education. The child shall have attained the age
of five (5) by the first (1st) day of January of the kindergarten school
year in which s/he is enrolled. Children who will not be the proper age
for entrance to kindergarten by the first day of January of the school
year for which admission is requested shall also be evaluated for early
admittance if referred by an educator within the District, a pre-school
educator who knows the child, or a pediatrician or psychologist who
knows the child. Such children may also be evaluated at the discretion
of the principal of the school to which the student may be admitted.

Before a student is evaluated for early entrance, the principal (or
his/her designee) of the school to which the child may be admitted shall
obtain written permission from the child's parent/guardian.

When a parent or guardian requests early entrance to kindergarten,
information for testing by a District psychologist will be provided.
Such request should be made to the District Director of Instruction or
the principal of the building of attendance for such child.

Standards required for such early admission are as outlined below:

A. superior ratings on individually administered State approved
standardized mental ability test;

B. visual motor and gross motor skills must be at or near the age
equivalent of five (5) years or greater;

C. social emotional behavior skills will be assessed using surveys
completed by a) school psychologist who completed the mental ability
testing, b) parent/guardian, c) one (1) of the following: physician,
preschool teacher, child care provider, Sunday school teacher,
extra-curricular instructor or equivalent non family member. Parents of
the child being considered shall provide name and addresses of the
physician and non family member completed social, emotional, behavior
survey. Three (3) completed surveys must be returned before the District
committee will meet to considered recommendation.

The District committee (Pupil Personnel Services Committee) comprised of
K-1 principal, kindergarten teacher, Director of Instruction, and the
school psychologists who administered the testing, will review the data
gathered from the above criteria and make a recommendation regarding
early entrance admission or further evaluation. A written summary of the
outcome of the evaluation process will be provided to parent/guardian
along with instructions for appealing the outcome of the valuation
process.

Appeals must be made in writing to the Superintendent within thirty (30)
calendar days of the parent/guardian receiving the results of the
evaluation. The Superintendent or his/her designee shall review the
appeal and notify the parent/guardian of his/her decision not to exceed
thirty (30) calendar days of receiving the appeal. The Superintendent or
his/her designee's decision will be final.

### First Grade

A child is eligible for entrance into first grade if s/he attains the
age of six (6) on or before the thirtieth (30th) day of September of the
year in which s/he applies for entrance and has completed the
kindergarten program of this District or an equivalent program elsewhere
and has been recommended by the teacher for advancement to the first
grade. This requirement may only be waived if a request is made and
approved by the District's Pupil Personnel Services Committee.

The Board may admit to first grade such children as may be ineligible by
reason of age but demonstrate the ability and need to undertake an
accelerated program of education. The child shall have attained the age
of six (6) by the first day of January of the first grade school year in
which s/he is enrolled. Children who will not be the proper age for
entrance to first grade by the first day of January of the school year
for which admission is requested shall also be evaluated for early
admittance if referred by an educator within the District, a pre-school
educator who knows the child, or a pediatrician or psychologist who
knows the child. Such children may also be evaluated at the discretion
of the principal of the school to which the student may be admitted.

Before a student is evaluated for early entrance, the principal (or
his/her designee) of the school to which the child may be admitted shall
obtain written permission from the child's parent/guardian.

To be considered for advanced placement in first grade each such child
must:

A. superior ratings on individually administered State approved
standardized mental ability test;

B. visual motor and gross motor skills must be at or near the age
equivalent of five (5) years or greater;

C. social emotional behavior skills will be assessed using surveys
completed by a) school psychologist who completed the mental ability
testing, b) parent/guardian, c) one (1) of the following: physician,
preschool teacher, child care provider, Sunday school teacher,
extra-curricular instructor or equivalent non family member. Parents of
the child being considered shall provide name and addresses of the
physician and non family member completed social, emotional, behavior
survey. Three (3) completed surveys must be returned before the District
committee will meet to considered recommendation.

The District committee (Pupil Personnel Services Committee) comprised of
K-1 principal, kindergarten teacher, Director of Instruction, and the
school psychologists who administered the testing, will review the data
gathered from the above criteria and make a recommendation regarding
early entrance admission or further evaluation. A written summary of the
outcome of the evaluation process will be provided to parent/guardian
along with instructions for appealing the outcome of the valuation
process.

Appeals must be made in writing to the Superintendent within thirty (30)
calendar days of the parent/guardian receiving the results of the
evaluation. The Superintendent or his/her designee shall review the
appeal and notify the parent/guardian of his/her decision not to exceed
thirty (30) calendar days of receiving the appeal. The Superintendent or
his/her designee's decision will be final.

The Superintendent shall require that each child who registers for
entrance to school provide:

A. his/her birth certificate or similar documentation authorized by law
as proof of age and birthdate;

B. proof of residency in the District;

C. a certified copy of any custody order or decree together with any
modification in such an order or decree;

D. his/her social security card or verification of said child's social
security number.

If such documents are not provided, the child may not be admitted and
appropriate law enforcement authorities are to be notified.

The Superintendent shall also ensure that each child entering the
District's kindergarten or first grade program for the first time has
been properly screened for any medical or health problems as well as
those related to hearing, vision, and speech and communication. The cost
for such screening shall be paid by the District.

R.C. 3313.64, 3313.641, 3313.672, 3313.673, 3321.01 et seq., 3321.05,
3323.01\
 R.C. 3324.10

Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 5/11/93\
 Revised 2/25/99\
 Revised 3/18/05\
 Revised 2/4/09
