---
layout: default
title: 5113.02 - SCHOOL CHOICE OPTIONS PROVIDED BYTHE NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education acknowledges that the Federal *No Child Left
Behind Act of 2001 ("NCLBA")* provides that the parents/guardians of
students enrolled in a Title I school that has been listed for "School
Improvement" for two (2) or more years, have the right to transfer their
children to another school in the District, provided there is a school
that provides instruction at the students' grade level(s) and such
school has not been identified as being in the process of school
improvement, corrective action, or restructing. If there is not another
school in the District offering instruction at the students' grade
level(s) that has not been identified as needing improvement, the
Superintendent shall contact neighboring districts and request that they
permit students to transfer to a school in one of those districts. The
Superintendent shall also offer Supplemental Educational Services (SES)
if a transfer within the District is not possible.

Additionally, students attending a "persistently dangerous" school, as
defined by State law have the right to transfer to another "safe" school
in the District. If there is not another "safe" school in the District
providing instruction at the students' grade level(s), the
Superintendent shall contact neighboring districts and request that they
permit students to transfer to a school in one of those districts.

Furthermore, a student who is a victim of a "violent crime" on school
property also has the right to transfer to another school. If there is
not another school in the District providing instruction at the
student's grade level, the Superintendent shall contact neighboring
districts and request that they permit that student to transfer to a
school in one of those districts providing instruction at the student's
grade level.

Children who transfer in accordance with this policy will be permitted
to remain at the school of transfer until completing the highest grade
at the school.

Title I, Section 1116(b)(1)(E) of the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001\
 Title I, Section 1116(e) of the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001\
 Title IX, Section 9532 of the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001

Adopted 4/27/04\
 Revised 4/25/06
