5200 - ATTENDANCE
=================

### Legal Requirement

R.C. 3321.01: All children between ages six (6) and eighteen (18) are of
compulsory school age and must attend school.

R.C. 3321.03: It is the parent's responsibility to cause the child to
attend school.

### Reporting Student Absences

It is the obligation and responsibility of the parent, guardian, or
custodian to report the child's absence or tardy each day.

A. The parent should phone the school by 10:00 a.m. on the day the
student is absent. Afternoon kindergarten parents must call by 1:00 p.m.

B. Upon the child's return to school, the parent shall provide written
documentation stating the day(s) absent and reason for such absence.
Written documentation of absence(s) includes parent notes and physician
notes as may be required by this attendance policy.

C. If within two (2) school days after returning to school following an
absence, written documentation has not been received, the absence will
be "unexcused".

D. Each student must have on file a completed Emergency Medical
Authorization form which provides:

​1. the name of the parent, custodial parent, guardian or legal guardian
or other person having care and charge of a student.

​2. a telephone number where the parent, custodial parent, guardian,
legal guardian or other person having care and charge of a student can
be reached during the day.

​3. the name and telephone number of an emergency number designee to
contact if the parent, custodial parent, guardian, legal guardian or
other person having care and charge of a student cannot be reached.

### Excused Absences

A. Personal illness or injury.

B. Medical or dental appointments (partial days, in most cases).

C. Illness or death in the family.

D. Funeral of immediate family member or relative.

E. Quarantine of the home (limited to the length of quarantine as
determined by proper health officials).

F. Religious holiday (not counted against the eight (8) day rule).

G. Appointments for court.

H. Head lice. Children excluded from school due to head lice are allowed
two (2) excused absences (two (2) occurrences per year, maximum). Days
beyond the two (2) day limit (two (2) occurrences per year) are
unexcused.

I. College visitation, juniors and seniors , maximum of three (3) days
total for school year(Parent/student required to provide verification of
the date and time of the visitation from the college, university or
technical college).

J. Emergencies and other reasons deemed good and sufficient by the
principal.

### Unexcused Absences and Tardies

The school administration will make the final decision whether an
absence/tardy is excused or unexcused once the proper written
documentation has been received regarding the absence/tardy. In general,
unexcused absences/tardies include (but are not limited to):

A. Missing the school bus.

B. Experiencing transportation problems at home or on the way to school.

C. Remaining at home to complete school assignments.

D. Missing school without legitimate illness.

E. Oversleeping. Alarm clock (student's or parent's) failed to work.

F. "My mom didn't get me up."

G. Not having suitable clothing to wear to school.

H. Working at a job during the school day without a proper work permit.

I. Babysitting.

J. Any form of recreation (unless pre-approved vacation days).

K. Personal business that can be done after school or on weekends.

L. "Helping at home" or "was needed at home".

M. "I had a game last night."

N. Senior pictures/portraits.

### Documentation of Absence/Tardy

Generally, up to eight (8) absences from school per school year or five
(5) tardies to school per school year for the reasons identified as
"excused absences" may be documented by a parent note. Absences in
excess of eight (8) per school year or tardies in excess of five (5) per
school year may not be excused by a parent and shall require
documentation by the child's physician, etc.

The foregoing general rule is for the convenience of school officials in
the administration of this attendance policy. This rule does not create
an entitlement for a child to be absent from school eight (8) days per
school year or tardy to school five (5) days per school year for reasons
other than those identified for excused absences. Application of this
general rule may be waived by school officials where circumstances
indicate that its application does not serve the child's best interest.
Those circumstances include, but are not limited to, the child's and/or
the child's siblings' attendance in the current or prior school years.

Nothing contained in this attendance policy is intended nor should be
construed as restricting the discretion of school officials to make such
inquiries and request such verification/documentation as is reasonably
necessary to determine if an absence/tardy is for any of the reasons
identified in this policy as "excused absences".

The Board authorizes the Superintendent to establish a hearing and/or
notification procedure for those students who have excessive
absences/tardies.

### Medical Excuses

Medical excuses are acceptable documentation of an absence or tardy to
school following a personal, in-office examination by a physician.
Doctors may only excuse absences or tardies to school for the specific
dates the student was under his/her direct medical care (during which
the student was medically unable to attend school). Excessive medical
excuses may result in the school contacting the physician for additional
medical documentation.

### Tardy to School

Lateness to school and homeroom is not an excuse for missing class. When
tardy after homeroom begins, students must be signed in personally in
the office by an adult school official. A student is tardy to school
when signing in to school during the first 102 minutes of the day.

Excessive tardiness may result in disciplinary action such as parent
conferences, detention, letters from the county office, court action,
and various types of suspension.

To be excused for a tardy, the attendance office and/or principal must
receive a note and telephone call from the parent/guardian within one
(1) day of the tardy.

For Truancy purposes only:

Important Note: Five (5) unexcused tardies = one (1) day unexcused
absence.

### Make-Up Work

Excused absences and tardies allow students to make-up all missed class
work, tests, and assignments. The general rule is the length of make-up
opportunity is equivalent to the length of the absence. Students are
expected to make-up class work, tests, and assignments missed due to
unexcused absences or tardies.

Students in grades K-5 will be given eighty percent (80%) credit for
make-up class work, tests and assignments completed for unexcused
absences except for the reason of suspension. For this reason students
will receive no credit.

Students in grades 6-8 will be given fifty percent (50%) credit for
make-up class work, tests and assignments completed for unexcused
absences except for the reason of suspension. For this reason students
will receive no credit.

Students in grades 9-12 will be given no credit for make-up class work,
tests and assignments completed for any unexcused absence.

### Tardy to Class

Each building implements procedures defining class tardies and
appropriate disciplinary steps for being tardy to class.

### Students Receiving Post-Secondary Credit

Some District students may be enrolled in post-secondary institutions to
enable them to earn college and high school graduation credit through
the successful completion of college courses. Students participating in
post-secondary education options are expected and required to attend
their classes at the post-secondary institutions just as they would be
required to attend High School at the District.

Truancy Policy

### Truancy Defined

Truancy is defined by R.C. 3313.609, as "any absence that is not
excused".

### Consequences of Truancy

Besides school-imposed discipline, unexcused absences (truancies) may be
handled as follows:

A. two (2) unexcused absences\

Formal warning via letter to parent/student.

B. five (5) unexcused absences\

Juvenile Court truancy intervention meeting.

C. seven (7) unexcused absences\

Unofficial court hearing.

Important Note: Formal court proceedings may be initiated without
utilizing the above sequence.

### Truancy Charges Filed in Court

Truancy charges may be filed against students who become chronic (or
habitual) truants. In addition, "contributing" charges may be filed
against the parent(s).

A. Chronic Truancy (Delinquency)

​1. seven (7) consecutive unexcused absences

​2. ten (10) unexcused absences in four (4) weeks

​3. fifteen (15) unexcused absences in a school year

B. Habitual Truancy (Unruly)

​1. five (5) consecutive unexcused absences

​2. seven (7) unexcused absences in four (4) weeks

​3. twelve (12) unexcused absences in a school year

Students admitting to the truancy charge or adjudicated as
unruly/delinquent for truancy may be ordered by the Juvenile Court to
return to school and accumulate no further unexcused absences or tardies
until graduation. A violation of court order may be filed against the
student for any future unexcused absence or tardy. The same applies to
parents who have plead or been found guilty of "contributing" charges.
Juvenile Court may retain jurisdiction of students until they attain
twenty-one (21) years of age.

### Athletics, Student Activities, Cheerleading, and Student Attendance

A student must be in school to participate in or attend a school
function that evening. Only the principal may excuse a student for being
absent from school and allow a student to participate in an event. The
absence must be verified in advance and be for medical, dental, family
death, legal, or school-related reasons. Continuous absences will result
in removal from the activity and school discipline.

### Passes for Leaving School

Students are not permitted to leave the school grounds at any time
during the school day without a permit from the school office. If a
student must leave the building because of illness or any other
emergency, that student must get permission from designated school
personnel. Parental permission to leave school must also be secured by
school officials before a student may sign-out in the attendance office.
Failure to follow the school building's proper procedure will be
considered an unexcused absence.

A student may leave school before the day ends provided the parent/legal
guardian writes a note indicating the student has a medical, dental, or
legal appointment, or that an emergency exists. This note, with a
telephone number or an appointment card, must be turned into the office
before school begins. Most of these absences (including appointments to
get driver's licenses) should only result in a partial or one half (1/2)
day absence from school. Students will not be excused for the entire day
unless it is verified by the specific appointment stating the need to be
out all day. Elementary students must have a note indicating a change in
the student's routine (a bus student being picked up or walking, rather
than riding the bus).

There is no legal, acceptable reason for any student to miss school in
the name of a "skip day," therefore, any student participating in such
an unauthorized activity shall be deemed truant and will be dealt with
according to the rules of truancy.

R.C. 3313.664, 3321.01 et seq., 3321.13(B)(2), 3321.19, 3321.191,
3321.22\
 O.A.C. 3301-47-01, 3301-51-13

Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 2/25/99\
 Revised 11/28/00\
 Revised 7/25/06\
 Revised 8/12/08\
 Revised 5/25/10\
 Revised 8/1/11\
 Revised 9/25/12
