5210 - STUDENT TRAVEL WITH FAMILY
=================================

Parents are strongly encouraged to arrange travel plans to coordinate as
closely as possible with school vacation periods to avoid missed school
days. Should such absences become excessive or otherwise have adverse
effects on a student's education, the building principal shall request a
conference with the parents and student and take appropriate action to
correct the problem, including disciplinary action, if warranted.
Parents are strongly encouraged not to arrange travel plans during the
school year that would have adverse effects on a student's education.
However, if a parent anticipates or is planning travel that will have
the student removed from school for an extended period of time, parents
are required to meet with the building principal to take appropriate
action regarding the problem, including withdrawing the student from
school, if warranted. Proper written documentation regarding the travel
plans must be submitted to the school district.

A student's participation in any school-sponsored activity during a
school calendar vacation period shall be voluntary if the student is
traveling out of the area on a family approved vacation. Further, if the
family's travel requires that the student miss school for a reasonable
period before and/or after school calendar vacation periods, the student
shall be permitted to make up any missed work up to a maximum of five
(5) school days. Such missed days shall, however, be considered excused
absences. See Policy [**5200**](po5200.md) on attendance.

No student shall be penalized for failure to attend athletic, other
co-curricular and extra-curricular contests, or practices during such
family travel vacations, including the excused absence days. However,
the coach or advisor responsible for the activity shall have the right
to determine the student's degree of participation following his/her
return, based on a fair and objective analysis of the student's fitness
and preparedness.

Revised 3/11/08\
 Revised 9/23/08\
 Revised 9/25/12
