5320 - IMMUNIZATION
===================

In order to safeguard the school community from the spread of certain
communicable diseases and in recognition that prevention is a means of
combating the spread of disease, the Board of Education requires all
students to be immunized against poliomyelitis, measles, diphtheria,
rubella (German measles), pertussis, tetanus, mumps, and others legally
designated in accordance with State Statutes, unless specifically exempt
for medical or other reasons. The Board requires that students who start
kindergarten during or after the school year beginning in 1999 be
immunized against Hepatitis B or be in the process of being immunized.
The Board also requires that students who start kindergarten during or
after the school year beginning in 2006 be immunized against chicken
pox. This policy pertains to both students who currently attend school
in the District and those eligible to attend.

The Superintendent and/or designee may exempt a student from being
immunized against either or both measles and mumps if the student
presents a signed statement from a parent or physician indicating s/he
has had measles or mumps and does not need to be immunized. The student
will be allowed to attend school only if a physician's statement
indicates there is no danger of contagion. In case of an outbreak of the
disease for which the student has not been immunized or an epidemic, the
Superintendent and/or designee shall not allow the student to attend
school.

In the case of a chicken pox epidemic in the school's population, the
Superintendent and/or designee may deny admission to a student otherwise
exempted from the chicken pox immunization requirement. The
Superintendent and/or designee shall prescribe methods whereby the
academic standing of a student who is denied admission during a chicken
pox epidemic is preserved.

The Superintendent and/or designee may also exempt a student from
immunization if a physician certifies in writing that immunization from
a particular disease is medically contra-indicated.

A student may also be exempted from immunization if a parent or guardian
objects for good cause, including religious conviction.

A student who has not completed immunization may be admitted to school
provided the necessary immunizations are being received in the fastest
time consistent with the approved immunization schedule and good medical
practice.

The Board believes that immunization is the primary responsibility of
the parent(s).

Any immunization program conducted by this District requires prior
approval of the Board and can only extend to those immunizations
provided for by Statute and the rules of this Board.

Implementation of this policy shall be the administrative responsibility
of the school nurse.

R.C. 3313.67, 3313.671, 3313.671(B)

Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 2/25/99\
 Revised 1/23/07\
 Revised 3/11/08
