---
layout: default
title: 5420.01 - CHILD STUDY/INTERVENTION ASSISTANCE
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education recognizes that students often undergo academic,
social, emotional, and personal problems that may affect their school
work or personal lives. Whenever teachers, parents, administrators, or
other school personnel recognize a problem with a student that is
affecting his/her performance, the following referral process will take
place in order to assist that child:

The Board directs all school personnel to become familiar with this
process and related procedures. Teachers shall begin the process by
completing a "School Age Request for Assistance" (CI204) and meeting
with the principal to identify problem areas and accommodation(s)
attempted in the classroom. If further assistance is needed, the school
principal shall coordinate an Intervention Assistance Team having
representation from the teaching staff, guidance staff, and other
professional support staff as appropriate. The Intervention Assistance
Team shall be responsible for developing a set of classroom and/or home
strategies to assist the student, "Documentation of Interventions"
(CI207). Referral to community-based child assistance agencies may be
made if deemed necessary.

If intervention strategies are deemed successful, the student shall be
monitored to be sure s/he continues to progress. If intervention
strategies are not successful, the team may request a multi-factored
evaluation of the student. The team shall request such an evaluation by
updating the "School Age Request for Assistance" form and forwarding the
information to the school psychologist.

Approved 1/28/92\
 Revised 5/27/03\
 Revised 9/23/08
