---
layout: default
title: 5460 - GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

In order to acknowledge each student's successful completion of the
instructional program appropriate to the achievement of District goals
and objectives as well as personal proficiency, the Board of Education
awards a diploma to eligible students at a graduation ceremony.

The Board shall award a regular high school diploma to every student
enrolled in this District who meets the requirements of graduation
established by this Board or who properly completes the goals and
objectives specified in his/her individualized education program (IEP)
including either the exemption from or the requirement to complete the
tests required by the State Board of Education in order to graduate.
Each student must demonstrate, unless exempted, at least a proficient
level of skill on the tests required by the State Board of Education to
graduate.

An honors diploma shall be awarded to any student who meets the
established requirements for graduation or the requirements of his/her
IEP; attains the applicable scores on the tests required by the State
Board of Education to graduate; and meets any additional criteria the
State Board may establish.

The Board shall award an honors diploma to students who successfully
complete the College Preparatory Curriculum and meet at least eight (8)
of the following nine (9) criteria:

A. earn four (4) units of English

B. earn at least three (3) units of Mathematics, which shall include
Algebra I, Algebra II, and Geometry, or a three (3) year sequence of
courses which contains equivalent content

C. earn at least three (3) units of Science, which develop the concepts
for physical, life, and earth and space

D. earn three (3) units of Social Studies

E. earn either three (3) units of one (1) foreign language, or two (2)
units each of two (2) foreign languages

F. earn one (1) unit of fine arts

G. earn either one (1) unit of business/technology and two (2)
additional units in (A) through (F) or earn three (3) additional units
in (A) through (F)

H. maintain an overall high school grade point average of at least 3.5
on a 4 point scale up to the last grading period of the senior year

I. obtain a composite score of 27 on the American College Testing
Program's (ACT) Tests, or an equivalent composite score of 1210 on the
Scholastic Assessment Test (SAT)

Students in a vocational program may earn an Honors Diploma by
successfully completing at least two (2) years of an intensive
Vocational or Technical Education Curriculum and meet at least nine (9)
of the following ten (10) criteria:

A. earn four (4) units of English, which may include one (1) unit of
Applied Communication

B. earn three (3) units of Mathematics, which will include Algebra,
Geometry, or a sequence of courses that contain equivalent content

C. earn three (3) units of Science, which develop concepts for physical,
life, and earth and space sciences

D. earn three (3) units of Social Studies

E. earn either two (2) units of a foreign language, or two (2) units of
business/technology, or one (1) unit of each

F. earn three (3) units in the student's vocational or technical
education curriculum

G. earn two (2) additional units in (A) through (F) or fine arts

H. maintain an overall high school grade point average of at least 3.5
on a 4 point scale up to the last grading period of the senior year

I. complete a career passport that reflects achievement of the
occupational proficiency benchmark established for the Ohio Vocational
Competency Assessment or the equivalent

J. obtain a composite score of 27 on the American College Testing
Program's (ACT) tests, or an equivalent composite score of 1210 on the
Scholastic Assessment Tests (SAT)

The Board shall grant a diploma of adult education to all District
residents over the age of twenty-one (21) who meet the requirements
established by the State Board of Education.

Any resident of the District who is at least twenty-two (22) years old
and has not received a high school diploma or its equivalent shall be
awarded at least one-half (1/2) but not more than six (6) "life
experience" credits toward a diploma of adult education, providing
his/her request for such credits meets all of the requirements
established by the State. The Board authorizes the Superintendent to
determine whether or not the person's "life experiences" have produced
the type of knowledge and/or skills which adequately substitute for
those s/he would have learned in the classroom.

Eligible adults, scheduled to earn a diploma on or after July 1, 1993,
may contact the high school principal to schedule administration of the
tests required by the State Board of Education. Disabled adults may be
exempted from taking the tests required by the State Board of Education
for graduation.

Each diploma shall be signed by the President and Treasurer of the
Board, the Superintendent and the principal of the high school, and
shall bear the date of its issue.

The local requirement for graduation shall be the completion of work and
studies representing the instructional program assigned to grades K
through 12. However, no student shall be required to remain in school
for any specific number of semesters or other terms if the student
completes the required curriculum early.

Effective with the class of 2004, the following twenty-one (21) units of
credit are required for graduation from Springboro High School. These
units shall be distributed among the curriculum as described below:

English

4

Math

3

Science

3 (including 1 unit of biological science & 1 unit of physical science)

Social Studies

3 (including one (1) unit of U.S. History, one (1) unit of American
Government/Economics, and one (1) unit of American Survey or Jr. U.S.
History)

Health/Physical Education

1 (2 semesters of PE)

Fine Arts

1

Electives

6

TOTAL

21

High school students are promoted from grade to grade on the basis of
credits earned, i.e. students must have earned five (5) credits to be
classified as a sophomore, ten (10) credits to be classified as a
junior, and fifteen (15) credits to be classified as a senior.

Every high school may permit students below the ninth grade to take
advanced work for credit. This work shall count toward graduation
requirements if it was both:

A. taught by a person who possesses a license/certificate issued under
State law that is valid for teaching high school;

B. designated by the Superintendent or designee as meeting the high
school curriculum requirements.

Students who attend Warren County Career Center during their junior and
senior years will need the following minimum requirements for graduation
from Springboro High School which also includes passage of
State-mandated tests:

English

4

Math

3

Science

3 (one (1) physical/one (1) biological)

Social Studies

3 (World History, US History, Government/Economics)

Physical Education

1/2 (2 semesters @ 1/4 credit each semester)

Health

1/2

Fine Arts

1

Vocational Program

6

TOTAL

21

### Effective with the class of 2014:

The Board shall award an academic diploma with honors to students who
successfully complete the College Preparatory Curriculum and meet at
least seven (7) of the following eight (8) criteria:

A. earn four (4) units of English

B. earn at least four (4) units of Mathematics, which shall include
Algebra I, Geometry, Algebra II or equivalent and another higher level
course or a four (4) year sequence of courses that contain equivalent
content

C. earn at least four (4) units of Science, including Physics and
Chemistry

D. earn four (4) units of Social Studies

E. earn three (3) units of Foreign Language, including at least two (2)
units in each language studied

F. earn one (1) unit of Fine Arts

G. Career-Technical courses are not counted toward requirements and may
not be used to meet requirements

H. electives are not counted toward requirements

I. maintain an overall high school grade point average of at least 3.5
on a 4.0 point scale

J. obtain a composite score of 27 on the American College Testing
Program's (ACT) Test, or an equivalent composite score of 1210 on the
Scholastic Assessment Test (SAT) [excluding scores from the writing
sections]\*

K. Additional Assessment none

\*Writing sections of either standardized test should not be included in
the calculation of this score.

Diploma with Honors requirements pre-suppose completion of all high
school diploma requirements in Ohio Revised Code including:

-   1/2 unit health
-   1/2 unit of Physical Education
-   1/2 unit in American History
-   1/2 unit in American Government

The Board shall award a career-technical diploma with honors to students
who successfully complete the Career-Technical Curriculum and meet at
least seven (7) of the following eight (8) criteria:

A. earn four (4) units of English

B. earn at least four (4) units of Mathematics, which shall include
Algebra I, Geometry, Algebra II or equivalent and another higher level
course or a four (4) year sequence of courses that contain equivalent
content

C. earn at least four (4) units of Science, including Physics and
Chemistry

D. earn four (4) units of Social Studies

E. Foreign Language courses are not counted toward requirements

F. Fine Arts courses are not counted toward requirements

G. Career-Technical courses are now counted in Electives

H. Electives-earn a minimum of four (4) units of Career-Technical
courses. Program must lead to an industry recognized credential,
apprenticeship or be part of an articulated career pathway which can
lead to post secondary credit

I. maintain an overall high school grade point average of at least 3.5
on a 4.0 point scale

J. obtain a composite score of 27 on the American College Testing
Program's (ACT) Test, or an equivalent composite score of 1210 on the
Scholastic Assessment Test (SAT) [excluding scores from the writing
sections]\*

K. Additional Assessment - achieve the proficiency benchmark established
for the appropriate Ohio Career-Technical Competency assessment or the
equivalent

\*Writing sections of either standardized test should not be included in
the calculation of this score.

Diploma with Honors requirements pre-supposes completion of all high
school diploma requirements in Ohio Revised Code including:\

-   1/2 unit physical education
-   1/2 unit health
-   1/2 unit in American History
-   1/2 unit in American Government

The following twenty-one (21) units of credit are required for
graduation from Springboro High School. These units shall be distributed
among the curriculum as described below:

English

4

Mathematics

4 (including 1 unit of Algebra II or the equivalent of Algebra II)

Science

3 (including 1 unit of physical science, 1 unit of life sciences, and 1
unit advanced study in one or more of the following sciences: Chemistry,
Physics, or other physical science; advanced biology or other life
science; astronomy, physical geology, or other earth or space science)

Social Studies

3 (including 1/2 unit of American History and 1/2 unit of American
Government)

Health

1/2 unit

Physical Education

1/2 unit

Physical Education 1/2 unit may be waived for any student who, during
high school, has participated in interscholastic athletics, marching
band, or cheerleading for at least two **full** seasons. The 1/2 unit
may also be waived with participation in two years of Junior Reserve
Officer Training Corps (JROTC). Students who are granted the physical
education waiver must fill in the 1/2 unit with other course work
consisting of at least 1/2 units.

Electives

6 (including one or any combination of Foreign Language, Fine Arts,
Business, career-technical education, family and consumer sciences,
technology, agriculatural education, or English Language Arts,
Mathematics, Science, or Social Studies courses not otherwise required)

Other requirements in economics and financial literacy and fine arts.

All students must receive instruction in Economics and financial
literacy during grades 7-8, and grades 9-12 and must complete at least
two (2) semesters of Fine Arts taken any time in grades 9-12. Students
following a career-technical pathway are exempted from the Fine Arts
requirement.

TOTAL

21

Units of credit may be earned by:

A. completing coursework;

B. testing out of or demonstrating mastery of course content; or

C. pursuing one or more educational options in accordance with the
District's Credit Flexibility Program.

Students must pass the second semester of a year long course, as well as
gain a final average of 60% or above in order to earn credit for the
course.

Students must pass the second nine weeks of a semester course, as well
as gain a final average of 60% or above in order to earn credit for the
course.

In order for a student to participate in Commencement activities, s/he
must meet the following criteria:

A. successfully complete all requirements established by the State of
Ohio Department of Education and the Springboro Board of Education

B. pay all financial obligations to the high school, the Warren County
Career Center, or the Board of Education

C. pass all required sections of the Ohio Graduation Test depending upon
year of graduation

D. complete all disciplinary obligations

E. attend graduation practice

F. wear appropriate attire for graduation

Students who violate any of these policies and rules may be withheld
from participation in Commencement

In the event that a student does not fulfill the requirements of the
Board of Education, the Superintendent is given the authority to allow a
student to participate in commencement ceremonies under the following
conditions:

A. Student/parent petitions the Superintendent, in writing, as to the
extenuating circumstances.

B. The actual diploma will not be awarded until all requirements stated
above are fulfilled.\

Example: A student participating in PSEO courses that end after our
commencement may be allowed to participate with a passing grade
confirmation from their college professors. They would receive their
diploma after official grades are received.

The Superintendent shall establish whatever procedures are necessary to
comply with this policy and related State rules and regulations
including the following:

A. The careful monitoring, recording, and reporting of each student's
progress and his/her accumulation of graduation requirements.

B. The counseling of students at the beginning of their high school
career and throughout their high school career so that they know what is
expected of them in order to graduate from high school.

C. The issuance of timely and periodic notices and warnings to parents
of students in danger of not fulfilling graduation requirements and not
participating in the commencement.

R.C. 3313.60, 3313.603, 3313.61, 3313.611, 3313.614, 3313.647, 3323.08\
 R.C. 3301.07, 0710, 0711\
 A.C. 3301-41-01, 3301-13-01 to 07

Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 7/16/91\
 Revised 8/27/91\
 Revised 3/9/93\
 Revised 5/11/93\
 Revised 6/23/98\
 Revised 5/27/03\
 Revised 6/28/05\
 Revised 9/11/07\
 Revised 5/25/10\
 Revised 5/24/11\
 Revised 8/1/11
