5420 - REPORTING STUDENT PROGRESS
=================================

### Purpose Statement

The Springboro Community City School District recognizes the importance
of cooperation between the home and school, and its responsibility in
keeping parents informed of the progress of students in school. Student
grading and progress reporting procedures are intended to reflect
student competency in the mastery of learning objectives, student growth
over the course of a school year (including citizenship and effort), and
student achievement - what the student knows or can do.

Grading and progress reporting procedures shall provide guidance to
teachers in evaluating student competency, growth, and achievement.
Grading and reporting procedures shall also allow for flexibility in
providing for individual needs and differences of students. Evaluation
in terms of competency (mastery) and achievement shall not ignore
individual differences among students nor shall evaluation in terms of
effort mean that high standards have been ignored. Teachers are
encouraged to emphasize competency and achievement in grading, but with
the individual student in mind. Grading and reporting procedures shall
apply to all learning situations within the school setting.

Grading and reporting procedures shall provide a regular and frequent
source of information about the competence, growth, and achievement of
students for parents, students, and others with an interest in the
student's educational status. Grading and reporting procedures for each
class shall be explained to parents either through direct parent contact
or be sent home to parents. Grading procedures shall be based upon the
assumption that students will respond to clear and accurate reporting of
competence, growth, and achievement as positive opportunities for
success rather than threats of failure. Criteria used to measure
competence, growth, and achievement shall be designed to be as objective
as possible and appropriate to the age and maturity of students.
Criteria for grading shall be consistently reported, based upon valid
educational practice, and based upon an appropriate number of
demonstrated instances of student performance.

### Reporting Student Progress

Student competency, growth and achievement will be reported in four
nine-week or quarter grading periods for grades K - 12. A grade report
will be sent to parents at the end of each grading period. All students
should receive an appropriate amount of information about competence,
growth and achievement from the results of work that has been reviewed
and evaluated in the professional judgment of the teacher (i.e.,
Homework, in-class work, assessments, participation, and effort).
Parents should be consulted if, in the teacher's judgment, the child's
academic situation warrants parental contact. For grades K - 12,
teachers shall use professional judgment to record an adequate number of
instances of student performance as the basis of assigning grades. A
minimum of nine (9) grades must be taken for each core academic subject
as the basis of the nine-week/quarter grade. The following shall serve
as the basis of assigned grades in the Springboro Community City
Schools:

A. Mastery of Objectives

Mastery shall be determined through a variety of assessments such as
tests, quizzes, projects, and classroom projects.

B. Other Criteria

Other criteria shall be used as a portion of the grade such as homework,
daily class work, and class participation.

C. Greater emphasis shall be placed upon Mastery of Objectives rather
than Other Criteria.

### Grade Reporting

A. Student Grade Reporting: Grades K - 1

Grade reporting in grades K - 1 will be based on reporting the level of
skill mastery in the grade level Ohio Academic Skill Indicators. To
report progress toward mastery of skills codes that will be used will be
"M" (Master), "AP" (Approaching Mastery); "N" (Not Met Expectation).

Course content is defined as mastery of indicators through assessment,
homework, daily class work, and/or class participation.

B. Student Grade Reporting: Grades 2 - 5

Grade reporting in grades 2 - 5 will be a combination of percentages and
checklists. In grades 2 and 3, checklists may be used to indicate
mastery of specific skills within a content area. As students progress
through the building, checklists may be shortened or eliminated.

Any percentage below seventy-five (75) will be considered
non-proficiency of course content (course content is defined as mastery
of objectives through assessment, homework, daily class work, and/or
class participation).

\*Unified Arts, Work Habits, and Conduct will use the codes "E"
(Excellent), "S" (Satisfactory), "N" (Needs Improvement), and "U"
(Unsatisfactory).

Grades 4 & 5 will use the codes to report progress for codes "E"
(Excellent), "S" (Satisfactory), "N" (Needs Improvement), and "U"
(Unsatisfactory) for Handwriting.

No grade will exceed 100%.

C. Student Grade Reporting: Grades 6 - 12

Progress will be reported using percentages for all students in grades 6
- 12. Any percentage below sixty (60) will be considered failing course
content (course content is defined as mastery of objectives through
assessments, homework, daily class work, and/or participation). No grade
will exceed 100% with the exception of "weighted classes."

### Progress (Interim) Reports

The interim reporting process in the Springboro Community City Schools
is designed as an important way for teachers to communicate to parents
at the mid-point of each grading period. Teachers are asked to
communicate to parents using the Interim Report Form designed for each
grade. Principals shall determine the dates interim reports are to be
sent home for each nine-week grading period.

A. Interim Reports: Grades K - 12

Interim reports will be created electronically for parents if a child is
not mastering an academic content area (grade below 75% for grades 2-12
and a grade of N for grades K-1) or if there has been a significant drop
in a content area, or at a teacher's discretion.

B. A paper copy of an interim report will be sent home for those
parents/guardians who have not logged onto Progress Book within thirty
(30) days prior to the interim reporting date.

### Grade Point Averages (Including Weighted Classes)

**A. Springboro Junior High School**

Grade Point Averages (GPA) shall be calculated each nine (9) weeks and
reported to students and parents in the form of a percentage average on
the report card.

Grade point averages in grades 6 - 8 shall be calculated as a percentage
GPA based upon grades earned in classes.

**Percentage**

**Quality Point Value**

93-100

4.0

90-92

3.7

87-89

3.3

83-86

3.0

80-82

2.7

77-79

2.3

73-76

2.0

70-72

1.7

67-69

1.3

63-66

1.0

60-62

0.7

**B. Springboro High School**

Grade Point Averages (GPA) shall be calculated each nine (9) weeks and
reported to students and parents in the form of a percentage average on
the report card.

Grade Point Averages based on the Quality Points Earned shall be
maintained for the purpose of reporting to colleges and universities.
The following table provides the conversion for calculating the GPA
based on the quality points earned.

**Percentage**

**Quality Point Value**

103-110

5.0 (Weighted Classes Only)

101-102

4.7 (Weighted Classes Only)

93-100

4.0

90-92

3.7

87-89

3.3

83-86

3.0

80-82

2.7

77-79

2.3

73-76

2.0

70-72

1.7

67-69

1.3

63-66

1.0

60-62

0.7

Note: Weighted classes shall receive percentage weighting and quality
point weighting based upon the above chart. Teachers of weighted classes
shall, after computing a percentage grade, add ten (10) percentage
points to the grade and apply it to the above scale. Please note that a
cumulative percentage average will not necessarily be within the quality
pointy value range.

If a student receives an incomplete for a quarter grade, the student
shall have ten (10) school days following the end of the quarter to
complete the missing work. At the end of these ten (10) days, the
incomplete will change to the percentage grade as reported by the
teacher. In the case of extended absences, a student may receive
approval from the **building principal** to exceed ten (10) days.

### Semester Assessments: Grades 9 - 12

A. Purpose

Semester assessments are to be administered in all classes at Springboro
High School and in classes at Springboro Junior High School which are
receiving high school credit, covering the equivalent of two (2)
nine-weeks of study. Semester assessments are to be designed as a
cumulative assessment of major concepts covered in each semester or year
long class. Assessments are to be designed in an appropriate manner to
elicit responses from students which show competence in major concepts
covered during the semester.

B. Format for Assessment

Semester assessments are to be cumulative in nature. Teachers may use
examinations, alternative assessments, or a combination of both.
Examinations are to be designed using appropriate test construction
techniques. Alternative assessments will be cumulative in nature and
approved by the building principal at least three (3) weeks prior to the
administration dates.

C. Semester Assessments Grade Policy

Semester assessments shall count twenty percent (20%) of the total
semester grade, with each nine-week grade counting forty percent (40%)
of the total semester grade.

D. Exam Exemption

Students may be exempt from semester assessments if they meet
requirements of the exam exemption procedures. The exam exemption
procedures shall be reviewed periodically and announced to students and
parents at the beginning of the school year.

### Semester Credit

To receive credit for a semester course, the student must receive a
sixty percent (60%) or higher for the second quarter of the class (note
this may be the fourth quarter of the year) and receive a semester
average of sixty percent (60%) or higher.

To receive credit for a year long class, the student must receive a
sixty percent (60%) or higher for the second semester and receive a
grade for the year of sixty percent (60%) or higher.

### Criteria for Honors/Awards

A. Springboro Junior High School

A nine-week percentage grade point average shall be used to determine
qualification for the Honor Roll and the Principal's List at Springboro
Junior High School as outlined below:

Honor Roll: Percentage grade point average between eighty-three (83) and
eighty-nine (89) with no one percentage grade below 75.

Principals' List: Percentage grade point average of ninety (90) or above
with no one percentage grade below eighty-five (85).

National Junior Honor Society: Percentage grade point average of
ninety-three (93) or above makes a student eligible for consideration
into NJHS.

B. Springboro High School

A nine-week percentage grade point average shall be used to determine
qualifications for the Honor Roll and the Principal's List at Springboro
High School as outlined below:

Honor Roll: Percentage grade point average between 83 and 89 with no one
percentage grade below 75, with no grade of incomplete and two (2) or
fewer disciplinary referrals.

Principals' List: Percentage grade point average of ninety (90) or above
with no one percentage grade below eighty-five (85),with no grade of
imcomplete and two (2) or fewer disciplinary referrals.

A cumulative percentage grade point average shall be used to determine
qualifications for other awards as outline below:

National Honor Society: A percentage grade point average of ninety-three
(93) or above makes a student eligible for consideration in NHS.

Valedictorian: Highest cumulative percentage grade point.

Salutatorian: Second highest cumulative percentage grade point.

### Transfer Students

When students transfer into the District, school personnel will request
an official transcript from the student's previous school. The grades
earned by the student, if percentages, will be recorded. If the grades
from the previous school are not listed as percentages, the grades will
be transferred to Springboro's Junior High or High School percentage
grading scale, and the appropriate credit will be granted.

If the grades earned at the previous school do not correspond to
Springboro's grading scale, the grade shall be entered at the midpoint
of the Junior High or High School percentage grade/letter grade scale.

### Conduct Grade Recommendations

A. Grades K - 5

Conduct will be reported as "E" (Excellent), "S" (Satisfactory) "N"
(Needs Improvement), and "U" (Unsatisfactory).

B. Springboro Junior High School and Springboro High School

Communications with parents about a student's conduct and citizenship is
important. Although the Grading Policy Committee recommends that a
conduct grade not be reported on the report card, comments will be added
to the report card for discipline/conduct for selection by the teacher.
The individual buildings may develop other methods of reporting
citizenship and conduct to parents.

Although citizenship will not be reported as a grade on report cards,
student behavior can affect grades due to unexcused absence, suspension,
or expulsion. As stated in Board Policy, "When a student is suspended or
expelled from school, the days will be classified as unexcused absences.
Therefore, the student will not be able to make up work missed during
the period of suspension or expulsion. In the case of suspension,
however, the principal may use discretion to allow the make-up of
semester/final exams and long term assignments (but is not limited to
these), providing the student requests such make-up work and that the
request is made within twenty-four (24) hours of the effective date of
the suspension." This may affect the student's grade for those classes.

R.C. 3301.0714\
 A.C. 3301-11, 3301-35-02(B)(4)

Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 1/28/97\
 Revised 9/27/05\
 Revised 10/27/09\
 Revised 8/1/11
