5408 - ACADEMIC ACCELERATION, EARLY ENTRANCE TO KINDERGARTEN, AND EARLY HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATION
==============================================================================================

In accordance with the belief that all children are entitled to an
education commensurate with their particular needs, students who can
exceed the grade-level indicators and benchmarks set forth in the
standards must be afforded the opportunity and be encouraged to do so.

The Board of Education believes that such students often require access
to advanced curriculum in order to realize their potential contribution
to themselves and society.

All children learn and experience success given time and opportunity,
but the degree to which academic content standards are met and the time
it takes to reach the standards will vary from student to student. The
Board believes that all students, including advanced learners, should be
challenged and supported to reach their full potential. For many
advanced learners, this can best be achieved by affording them access to
curriculum, learning environments, and instructional interventions more
commonly provided to older peers.

This policy describes the process that shall be used for evaluating
students for possible accelerated placement and identifying students who
should be granted early admission to kindergarten (see Policy
[**5112**](po5112.htm)), accelerated in one or more individual subject
areas, promoted to a higher grade level than their same age peers, and
granted early graduation from high school.

### Referrals and Evaluation

A. Any student residing in the District may be referred by a teacher,
administrator, gifted education specialist, guidance counselor, school
psychologist, or a parent or legal guardian of the student to the
principal of his/her school for evaluation for possible accelerated
placement. A student may refer himself/herself or a peer through a staff
member who has knowledge of the referred child's abilities.

B. Copies of this policy and referral forms for evaluation for possible
early entrance, whole-grade acceleration, individual subject
acceleration, and early high school graduation shall be made available
to staff and parents at each school building. The principal of each
school building (or his/her designee) shall solicit referrals of
students for evaluation for possible accelerated placement annually, and
ensure that all staff s/he supervises are aware of procedures for
referring students for evaluation for possible accelerated placement.

C. The principal (or his/her designee) of the referred students' school
shall obtain written permission from the student's parent(s) or legal
guardian(s) to evaluate the student for possible accelerated placement.
The District shall evaluate all students who are referred for evaluation
and whose parent(s) or legal guardian(s) have granted permission to
evaluate the student for possible accelerated placement.

D. Children who are referred for evaluation for possible accelerated
placement sixty (60) or more days prior to the start of school shall be
evaluated in advance of the start of the school year so that the child
may be placed in the accelerated placement on the first day of school.
Children who are referred for possible accelerated placement sixty (60)
or more days prior to the start of the second semester shall be
evaluated for possible accelerated placement at the start of the second
semester. In all other cases, evaluations of a referred child shall be
scheduled at the student's principal's discretion and placed in the
accelerated setting(s) at the time recommended by the acceleration
evaluation committee, if the committee determines the child should be
accelerated. Pursuant to Ohio Administrative Code 3321.01, all children
who will be the proper age for entrance to kindergarten or first grade
by the first day of January of the school year for which admission is
requested shall be evaluated upon the request of the child's parent(s)
or legal guardian(s). Children who will not yet be the proper age for
entrance to kindergarten or first grade by the first day of January of
the school year for which admission is requested shall also be evaluated
for possible early admittance if referred by an educator within the
District, a pre-school educator who knows the child, or pediatrician or
psychologist who knows the child (see Policy [**5112**](po5112.htm)).
Children who will not yet be the proper age for entrance to kindergarten
or first grade by the first day of January of the school year for which
admission is requested may also be evaluated for possible early
admittance at the discretion of the principal of the school to which the
student may be admitted.

E. A parent or legal guardian of the evaluated student shall be notified
in writing of the outcome of the evaluation process within forty-five
(45) days of the submission of the referral to the referred student's
principal. This notification shall include instructions for appealing
the outcome of the evaluation process.

F. A parent or legal guardian of the referred student may appeal in
writing the decision of the evaluation committee to the local
Superintendent within thirty (30) days of being notified of the
committee's decision. The Superintendent shall review the appeal and
notify the parent or legal guardian who filed the appeal of his/her
final decision within thirty (30) days of receiving the appeal. The
Superintendent's decision shall be final. However, the student may be
referred and evaluated again at the next available opportunity if s/he
is again referred for evaluation by an individual eligible to make
referrals as described in this policy.

### Acceleration Evaluation Committee

A. Composition

​1. The referred student's principal (or his/her designee) shall convene
an evaluation committee to determine the most appropriate available
learning environment for the referred student. This committee shall be
comprised of the following:

​a. a principal or assistant principal from the child's current school

​b. a current teacher of the referred student (with the exception of
students referred for possible early admission to kindergarten)

​c. a teacher at the grade level to which the student may be accelerated
(with the exception of students referred for possible early graduation
from high school)

​d. a parent or legal guardian of the referred student or a
representative designated by a parent or legal guardian of the referred
student

​e. a gifted education coordinator or gifted intervention specialist\

If a gifted coordinator or gifted intervention specialist is not
available in the District, a school psychologist or guidance counselor
with expertise in the appropriate use of academic acceleration may be
substituted.

​2. The acceleration evaluation committee shall be charged with the
following responsibilities:

​a. The acceleration evaluation committee shall conduct a fair and
thorough evaluation of the student.

1)

Students considered for whole-grade acceleration and early entrance to
kindergarten shall be evaluated using an acceleration assessment process
approved by the Ohio Department of Education. The committee shall
consider the student's own thoughts on possible accelerated placement in
its deliberations.

2)

Students considered for individual subject acceleration shall be
evaluated using a variety of data sources, including measures of
achievement based on State academic content standards (in subjects for
which the State had approved content standards) and consideration of the
student's maturity and desire for accelerated placement. The committee
shall consider the student's own thoughts on possible accelerated
placement in its deliberations.

3)

Students referred for possible early high school graduation shall be
evaluated based on past academic performance, measures of achievement
based on State academic content standards, and successful completion of
State mandated graduation requirements. The committee shall consider the
student's own thoughts on possible accelerated placement in its
deliberations.

​b. The acceleration evaluation committee shall issue a written decision
to the principal and the student's parent or legal guardian based on the
outcome of the evaluation process. If a consensus recommendation cannot
be reached by the committee, a decision regarding whether or not to
accelerate the student will be determined by a majority vote of the
committee membership.

​c. The acceleration evaluation committee shall develop a written
acceleration plan for students who will be admitted early to
kindergarten, whole-grade accelerated, or accelerated in one or more
individual subject areas. The parent(s) or legal guardian(s) of the
student shall be provided with a copy of the written acceleration plan.
The written acceleration plan shall specify:

1)

placement of the student in an accelerated setting;

2)

strategies to support a successful transition to the accelerated
setting;

3)

requirements and procedures for earning high school credit prior to
entering high school (if applicable); and

4)

an appropriate transition period for accelerated placement for early
entrants to kindergarten (see Policy [**5112**](po5112.htm)),
grade-level accelerated students, and students accelerated in individual
content areas.

​d. For students the acceleration committee recommends for early high
school graduation, the committee shall develop a written acceleration
plan designed to allow the student to complete graduation requirements
on an accelerated basis. This may include the provision of educational
options in accordance with A.C. 3301-35-06(G), waiving District
prerequisite requirements for enrolling in advance courses, waiving
District graduation requirements that exceed those required by the
State, and early promotion to sophomore (or higher) status to allow the
student to take the Ohio Graduation Test.

​e. The acceleration evaluation committee shall designate a school staff
member to ensure successful implementation of the written acceleration
plan and to monitor the adjustment of the student to the accelerated
setting.

### Accelerated Placement

A. The acceleration evaluation committee shall specify an appropriate
transition period for accelerated placement for early entrants to
kindergarten (see Policy [**5112**](po5112.htm)), grade-level
accelerated students, and students accelerated in individual subject
areas.

​1. At any time during the transition period, a parent or legal guardian
of the student may request in writing that the student be withdrawn from
accelerated placement. In such cases, the principal shall remove the
student without repercussions from the accelerated placement.

​2. At any time during the transition period, a parent or legal guardian
of the student may request in writing an alternative accelerated
placement. In such cases, the principal shall direct the acceleration
committee to consider other accelerative options and issue a decision
within thirty (30) days of receiving the request from the parent or
legal guardian. If the student will be placed in an accelerated setting
different from that initially recommended by the acceleration evaluation
committee, the student's written acceleration plan shall be revised
accordingly, and a new transition period shall be specified.

B. At the end of the transition period, the accelerated placement shall
become permanent. The student's records shall be modified accordingly,
and the acceleration implementation plan shall become part of the
student's permanent school record to facilitate continuous progress
through the curriculum.

Adopted 7/25/06
