---
layout: default
title: 5516 - STUDENT HAZING
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education believes that hazing activities of any type are
inconsistent with the educational process and prohibits all such
activities at any time in school facilities, on school property, and off
school property if the misconduct is connected to activities or
incidents that have occurred on school property. No administrator,
faculty member or other Board employee shall encourage, permit, condone,
or tolerate any hazing activities. No student shall plan, encourage, or
engage in any hazing.

Hazing shall be defined for purposes of this policy as performing any
act or coercing another, including the victim, to perform any act of
initiation into any class, team, or organization that causes or creates
a substantial risk of causing mental or physical harm. Permission,
consent, or assumption of risk by an individual subjected to hazing
shall not lessen the prohibitions contained in this policy.

Administrators, faculty members, and other employees of the Board shall
be alerted to possible situations, circumstances, or events which might
include hazing. If hazing or planned hazing is discovered, the students
involved shall be informed by the discoverer of the prohibitions
contained in this policy and shall be ordered to end all hazing
activities or planned activities immediately. All hazing incidents shall
be reported immediately to the Superintendent. Students, administrators,
faculty members, and other employees who fail to abide by this policy
may be subject to disciplinary action and may be held personally liable
for civil and criminal penalties in accordance with law.

The Superintendent shall distribute this policy to all students and
Board employees, and shall incorporate it into building, staff, and
student handbooks. It shall also be the subject of discussion at
employee staff meetings or in-service programs.

R.C. 2307.44, 2903.31, 3313.661

Revised 3/12/02
