---
layout: default
title: 5500 - CODE OF CONDUCT
---

{{ page.title }}
================

This Student Code of Conduct is adopted by the Board of Education of the
Springboro Community School District pursuant to R.C. 3313.661 and R.C.
3313.662.

Any student engaging in the following types of conduct, either
specifically or generally like the kinds of conduct listed below, is
subject to the following reprimand, detention, administrative detention,
in-school suspension, Saturday school, suspension, emergency suspension,
expulsion, removal from curricular or extra-curricular activities,
school transportation service, or other appropriate disciplinary actions
pursuant to R.C. 3313.661.

This code of conduct applies while a student is in the custody or
control of the school, on school grounds or closely proximate thereto,
while at a school-sponsored function or activity or on school-owned or
provided transportation vehicles. In addition, the Student Code of
Conduct governs student conduct at all times, on or off school property,
when such student conduct is reasonably related to the health and safety
of other students and/or school employees, or such conduct would
unreasonably interrupt the educational processes of the Springboro
Community Schools. This policy grants school officials the right to use
all legal means including, but not limited to, the use of drug trained
canines in the performance of their responsibilities.

The types of conduct prohibited by this Code of Conduct are as follows:

Rule \#1:

Damage or destruction of school property, property of school employees,
or property of other students, on or off of school premises.

Rule \#2:

Damage or destruction of private property on school premises or in areas
controlled by the school.

Rule \#3:

Assault on a school employee, student, or other person.

Rule \#4:

Harassment of school personnel or other students during school and/or
nonschool hours.

Rule \#5:

Fighting.

Rule \#6:

Hazing (to persecute, harass, or humiliate another student and/or
employee).

Rule \#7:

Misbehavior which disrupts or interferes with any school activity.

Rule \#8:

Disregard of reasonable directions or commands by school authorities
including school administrators and teachers.

Rule \#9:

Abuse of another. No student shall use or direct to, or about a school
employee or student, words, phrases, or actions which are considered to
be slanderous or degrading in nature, words or phrases which could be
considered threatening, menacing or indicate an intent to cause harm to
person or property, and/or words or phrases which are obscene or profane
as defined by the majority of our society. Name calling and negative,
uncomplimentary and offensive remarks related to physical handicaps or
defects, mental handicaps, race, religion, nationality, appearance or
other reason is prohibited.

Rule \#10:

Disrespect to a teacher or other school authority.

Rule \#11:

Refusing to take detention, skipping detention or other properly
administered discipline.

Rule \#12:

Falsifying of information given to school authorities in the legitimate
pursuit of their jobs.

Rule \#13:

Forgery of school or school-related documents.

Rule \#14:

Cheating or plagiarizing.

Rule \#15:

Gambling.

Rule \#16:

Extortion of a student or school personnel.

Rule \#17:

Theft or possession of stolen goods.

Rule \#18:

Arson or other improper use of fire.

Rule \#19:

Possession of matches or lighters or other similar devices.

Rule \#20:

Possession or use of dangerous weapons or ordnance or use of objects
which look like weapons or ordnance, including, but not limited to,
guns, firearms, ammunition and knives; possession or use of objects
which may render physical harm to another if improperly used.

Rule \#21:

Buying, selling, transferring, using or possessing any substance
containing tobacco, including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, a
pipe, a clove cigarette, chewing tobacco, snuff, and dip, or using
tobacco in any other form.

Rule \#22:

Buying, selling, or offering to sell, transferring, using, possessing or
being under the influence of any controlled substance (drugs, narcotics,
marijuana, etc.) or inhalants, or buying, selling, using, possessing or
being under the influence of any counterfeit controlled substance (any
substance that is made to look like a controlled substance, or is
represented to be a controlled substance, or that is believed to be a
controlled substance).

Rule \#23:

Buying, selling, transferring, using, possessing or being under the
influence of any drug, medication, inhalant or other controlled
substance which can be taken internally where the students involved
cannot show a legitimate health or other reason for the use of such
substances.

Rule \#24:

Buying, selling, transferring, using, or possessing any drug or
alcoholic paraphernalia to include instruments, objects, papers, pipes,
containers etc.

Rule \#25:

Possession of electronic communication devices in violation of
Electronic Devices Policy No. 5136 and/or an electronic laser pointing
device or electronic light emitting device.

Rule \#26:

Buying, selling, transferring, using, possessing or being under the
influence of any alcoholic beverage or intoxicant of any kind.

Rule \#27:

Cursing and/or use of indecent or obscene language in oral or written
form.

Rule \#28:

Publication or possession of lewd, vulgar, plainly offensive, obscene,
pornographic, sexually explicit or libelous material. "Sexually explicit
material" includes images of a person in any state of undress, images
depicting sexual activity, pornographic materials, and/or obscene
materials.

Rule \#29:

Placing of signs and slogans on school property without the permission
of the proper school authority.

Rule \#30:

Distribution on school premises of pamphlets, leaflets, buttons,
insignia, etc., without the permission of the proper school authority.

Rule \#31:

Demonstrations by individuals or groups causing disruption to the school
program.

Rule \#32:

Truancy.

Rule \#33:

Tardiness.

Rule \#34:

Leaving school premises during school hours or upon initial arrival
without permission of the proper school authority.

Rule \#35:

Presence in areas during school hours or outside school hours where a
student has no legitimate business without permission of the proper
school authority.

Rule \#36:

Improper or suggestive dress which interferes with the student's safety,
health, welfare or which disrupts the educational process or violates
the dress and appearance codes set forth in student handbooks or
established by administration or the Board of Education. This includes
the prohibition of all clothing, jewelry, signs, etc. which at the
discretion of the administration is reasonably related to or represents
gang or gang-like activity.

Rule \#37:

Indecent exposure.

Rule \#38:

Engaging in sexual acts, improper display of affection or other
inappropriate behavior with a person of the same or opposite sex.

Rule \#39:

Turning in false fire, tornado, bomb, disaster or other alarms.

Rule \#40:

Presence on school property with a communicable disease.

Rule \#41:

Failure to abide by rules and regulations set forth by the
administration for student parking or disobedience of driving
regulations while on school premises.

Rule \#42:

Convey, attempt to convey or knowingly possess a deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance onto any property owned or controlled by or to any
activity held under the auspices of the Board of Education.

Rule \#43:

Carrying concealed weapons.

Rule \#44:

Aggravated murder, murder, voluntary manslaughter or involuntary
manslaughter.

Rule \#45:

Felonious and/or aggravated assault.

Rule \#46:

Rape, gross sexual imposition or felonious sexual penetration.

Rule \#47:

Any disruption or interference with school activities.

Rule \#48:

Willfully aiding another person to violate school regulations.

Rule \#49:

Commission by a student of any crime in violation of the Ohio Criminal
Code, Ohio Traffic Code or the Ohio Juvenile Code.

Rule \#50:

Any other activity by a student which the student knows or should know
will disrupt the academic process or a curricular or extra-curricular
activity.

Rule \#51:

Failing to report the actions or plans of another person to a teacher of
administrator where these actions or plans of another person, if carried
out, could result in harm to another person or persons or damage
property, when the student has information about such actions or plans.

Rule \#52:

Violation of District's Acceptable Usage Policy for Technology.

Rule \#53:

Repeated violations of the Student Code of Conduct and/or any other
Board rule, regulation, or policy.

Rule \#54:

Selling or distributing items for the student's personal profit or
distribution.

Rule \#55:

Knowingly deceiving or attempting to circumvent any procedure or policy
established by the school.

Rule \#56:

Violation of any Board rule, regulation, or policy.

The Superintendent may require a student to perform community service in
conjunction with or in place of a suspension or expulsion. The
guidelines under which this community service shall be performed are:

A. Community service is an option to be utilized at the sole discretion
of the Superintendent and is not available at the discretion of the
student and parent/guardian.

B. Community service shall be performed at the place and time designated
by the Superintendent or his/her designee.

C. The student and parent/guardian will execute a document agreeing to
the community service in conjunction with or in place of a suspension or
expulsion. If community service is not completed to the
Superintendent's, or his/her designee's, satisfaction, all or part of
the suspension or expulsion may be reinstated.

D. Any failure to complete community service in a timely and acceptable
manner shall result in the immediate cancellation of the community
service option and the immediate imposition of suspension or expulsion.
Prior to imposing a suspension/expulsion for failure to complete
community service, the parent/guardian and student shall be sent a
written notice of the Superintendent's intention and shall have three
(3) days from the mailing of the notice to request a meeting with the
Superintendent to show cause why the suspension/expulsion should not be
imposed.

R.C. 3313.661

Revised 8/23/88\
 Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 7/28/92\
 Revised 5/11/93\
 Revised 3/28/01\
 Revised 8/1/1
