---
layout: default
title: 5512 - USE OF TOBACCO
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education is committed to providing students, staff, and
visitors with an indoor tobacco and smoke-free environment. The negative
health effects of tobacco use for both the users and nonusers,
particularly in connection with second hand smoke, are well established.
Further, providing a non-smoking and tobacco-free environment is
consistent with the responsibilities of teachers and staff to be
positive role models for our students.

For purposes of this policy, "use of tobacco" means to chew or maintain
any substance containing tobacco, including smokeless tobacco, in the
mouth to derive the effects of tobacco, as well as all uses of tobacco
or tobacco substitutes, including cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco,
chewing tobacco, snuff, or any other matter or substances that contain
tobacco, in addition to papers used to roll cigarettes and/or the
smoking of electronic, "vapor," or other substitute forms of cigarettes,
clove cigarettes or other lighted smoking devices for burning tobacco or
any other substance.

In order to protect students and staff who choose not to use tobacco
from an environment noxious to them, the Board prohibits the possession,
consumption, purchase or attempt to purchase and/or use of tobacco or
tobacco substitute products by students on Board premises, in
Board-owned vehicles, within any indoor facility owned or leased or
contracted for by the Board, and/or used to provide education or library
services to children, and at all Board-sponsored events.

Students who violate this policy shall be subject to disciplinary action
in accordance with the Student Code of Conduct/Student Discipline Code
and in accordance with policies of the Board.

R.C. 3313.20, 3313.47, 3313.66, 3313.751, 2151.87\
 20 U.S.C. 6081 et seq., 20 U.S.C. 7182

Revised 8/23/88\
 Revised 6/28/11
