5600 - STUDENT DISCIPLINE
=========================

The Board of Education acknowledges that conduct is closely related to
learning - an effective instructional program requires an orderly school
environment.

The Board believes that the best discipline is self-imposed and that
students should learn to assume responsibility for their own behavior
and the consequences of their actions.

The Board will not tolerate any form of violence, disruptive or
inappropriate behavior, nor excessive truancy which it defines as ten
(10) consecutive days or a total of fifteen (15) days of unexcused
absence. In addition to disciplinary action specified in the School
District Code of Conduct and parent/student handbooks, the
Superintendent shall develop other strategies as appropriate that will
help to reduce the incidence of any of these unacceptable behaviors at
school.

The Board shall require each student of this District to adhere to the
Code of Conduct promulgated by the administration and to submit to such
disciplinary measures as are appropriately assigned for infraction of
those rules. Such rules shall require that students:

A. conform to reasonable standards of socially acceptable behavior;

B. respect the person and property of others;

C. preserve the degree of order necessary to the educational program in
which they are engaged;

D. respect the rights of others;

E. obey constituted authority and respond to those who hold that
authority.

Data regarding disciplinary action(s) shall not be entered on a
student's record.

The Superintendent shall promulgate administrative guidelines for
student conduct which carry out the purposes of this policy and are not
arbitrary but bear a reasonable relationship to the need to maintain a
school environment conducive to learning.

The Superintendent shall designate sanctions for the infractions of
rules, excluding corporal punishment, which shall:

A. relate in kind and degree to the infraction;

B. help the student learn to take responsibility for his/her actions;

C. be directed, where possible, to ameliorating any harm which may have
been caused by the student's misconduct.

When a student is suspended or expelled from school, the days will be
classified as unexcused absences. Therefore, the student will not be
able to make up work missed during the period of suspension or
expulsion. In the case of suspension, however, the principal may use
discretion in allowing the make-up of semester/final exams and long-term
assignments, providing the student request such make-up work and that
the request is made within twenty-four (24) hours of the effective date
of the suspension.

Sanctions may not impose an academic punishment greater than that which
the student imposes on himself/herself by his/her own misconduct, but
exclusion from extra-curricular activities is permissible. A student who
has been disorderly on a school bus may be excluded from transportation
services.

The Superintendent shall publish to all students the rules of this
District regarding student conduct and the sanctions which may be
imposed for breach of those rules.

The building principal shall have the authority to assign discipline to
students, subject to the administrative guidelines of the Superintendent
and to the student's due process right to notice, hearing, and appeal.

Teachers, school bus drivers and other employees of this Board having
authority over students shall have the authority to take such means as
may be necessary to control the disorderly conduct of students in all
situations and in all places where such students are within the
jurisdiction of this Board and when such conduct interferes with the
educational program of the schools or threatens the health and safety of
others.

No student is to be detained after the close of the regular school day
unless the child's parent has been contacted and informed that the child
is going to be detained. No student shall be refused transportation
services until the parent has been notified of such refusal.
Notification to the parent is the responsibility of school personnel and
should be made prior to the departure of school buses. If a parent
cannot be contacted, the child should be detained on another day.

Notification should be made prior to the departure of school buses. If
the parent cannot be contacted, the child should be detained on another
day.

R.C. 3313.20, 3313.66, 3313.534, 3313.661, 3315.07\
 A.C. 3301-35-03 (G), 3301-83-08

Revised 7/28/92\
 Revised 6/23/98
