---
layout: default
title: 5610 - REMOVAL, SUSPENSION, EXPULSION, AND PERMANENT EXCLUSION OF STUDENTS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

No student is to be removed, suspended, expelled, or excluded from
school unless his/her behavior represents misconduct as specified in the
Student Code of Conduct approved by the Board. In addition to the
procedural safeguards and definitions set forth in this policy and the
student/parent handbook, the procedures set forth in Policy
[**5605**](po5605.md) shall apply to students identified as disabled
under the IDEA and/or Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.

No suspension or expulsion shall continue beyond the period of time
allowed by law.

Whenever a student is suspended or expelled for possession or use of
drugs as defined in Board policy 5630, the Superintendent may notify the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles and the Judge of the Juvenile Court.

Such notification is to be given within two (2) weeks after the
suspension or expulsion in a manner that complies with the provisions of
R.C. 3321.13(B)(3).

**A. - Suspension**

For purposes of this policy, "suspension" shall be the temporary denial
of attendance at school for a period not more than ten (10) school days
by the Superintendent, Assistant Superintendent, Principal, or Assistant
Principal. A suspension may take place during school hours as well as
after school hours. A suspension may also take place on school property
as well as off of school property. Any student under suspension from
school is considered suspended from any and all school functions and/or
activities. Any student who has been suspended from the Warren County
Career Center shall be considered suspended from the Springboro
Community City Schools, provided the student is given an informal
hearing before the appropriate WCCC administrator.

A suspended student shall not be allowed on any school property or at
any event sponsored by the school, regardless of location, unless prior
written notice has been granted by the Superintendent, Assistant
Superintendent, Principal or Assistant Principal. Violations of this
policy may result in the filing of trespassing charges with the local
police department.

Whenever the Superintendent, Assistant Superintendent, Principal or
Assistant Principal (hereafter the "Administrator") finds it necessary
to suspend a student for not more than ten (10) school days, the
following procedure shall be followed prior to the suspension of said
student:

​1. The student will be given written notice of the administrator's
intention to suspend said student and the written notice will contain
the reasons for the intended suspension.

​2. The student will be given an opportunity for an informal hearing
before the Administrator to challenge the reasons for the intended
suspension.

​3. If the student is suspended after the hearing, the Administrator
shall notify the student's parent, guardian or custodian, and the
Treasurer of the Board of Education within twenty-four (24) hours. This
notice shall include:

​a. the reason(s) for suspension;

​b. the right of the student, parent, guardian, or custodian to appeal
said suspension to the Board or its designee;

​c. the right to be represented at the appeal before the Board or its
designee.

​4. The Superintendent, or designated Central Office Administrator,
shall be the representative at all hearings regarding the appeal of a
suspension; except for those suspensions issued by the Superintendent,
which shall be heard by the Board. A notice of intent to appeal must be
filed in writing within ten (10) days of the date of the decision to
suspend the student with the Superintendent.

​5. A verbatim and/or audio record shall be kept of the appeal hearing
before the Board or its designee.

​6. If at the time of a suspension, there are fewer days remaining in
the school year than the number of days of the suspension, any or all of
the remaining suspension period may be applied to the following school
year.

​7. Under Ohio law, appeal of the Board's or its designee's decision may
be made to the Court of Common Pleas.

**B. Expulsion**

"Expulsion" shall be the exclusion of a student from the schools of this
District for a period not to exceed the greater of eighty (80) school
days or the number of school days remaining in a semester or term in
which the incident that gives rise to the expulsion takes place, unless
the incident involves a firearm. If a student brings a firearm onto
school property, or onto a school vehicle, or to any school-sponsored
activity, s/he shall be expelled for one (1) year (which may cross
school years) unless the Superintendent reduces the punishment for
reasons related to the specific circumstances. The Superintendent may
also expel a student from school for a period of one (1) year for
bringing a firearm to an interscholastic competition, an
extra-curricular event, or any other school program or activity that is
not located in a school or on property that is owned or controlled by
the District. The expulsion may extend, as necessary, into the school
year following the school year in which the incident that gives rise to
the expulsion takes place. The Superintendent shall refer any student
expelled for bringing a firearm (as defined in 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(3) or
weapon to school to the criminal justice or juvenile delinquency system
serving the District.

A student expelled from school shall not be allowed to participate in
any school function during the time of the expulsion. An expelled
student shall not be allowed on any school property or at any event
sponsored by the school, regardless of location, unless prior written
notice has been granted by the Superintendent, Assistant Superintendent,
Principal or Assistant Principal. Violations of this policy may result
in the filing of trespassing charges with the local police department.

The Superintendent may expel a student up to one (1) year if the student
brings or possesses a weapon as defined in Policy [**5772**](po5772.md)
onto school property, or onto a school vehicle, or to any
school-sponsored activity, or an interscholastic competition, an
extra-curricular event, or any other program or activity sponsored by
the School District or in which the District is a participant. A student
may also be expelled for one (1) year (which may cross school years) if
s/he possesses a weapon at school or any other property owned or
controlled by the Board or at an interscholastic competition, an
extra-curricular event, or any other school program or activity which
weapon was initially brought onto the property by another person. A
student who has been expelled from the Warren County Career Center shall
be considered expelled from Springboro Community City Schools.

The Superintendent may, in his/her sole judgment and discretion, modify
or reduce such expulsion to a period of less than one (1) year, on a
case-by-case basis so long as the modification is made in writing and
may include but not be limited to a recommendation from the group of
persons knowledgeable of the student's educational needs in accordance
with Policy [**2465**](po2465.md) - Suspension/Expulsion of Disabled
Students.

Whenever a Superintendent intends to expel a student, the following
steps must be taken prior to the expulsion:

​1. A written notice of intention to expel must be given to the student
and the parent, guardian, or custodian.

​2. Said notice to the student and the parent, guardian, or custodian
must include the following:

​a. The reasons for the intended expulsion.

​b. Notification of the opportunity of the student, parent, guardian, or
custodian, or their representative to appear before the Superintendent
or his/her designee to challenge the reasons for the intended expulsion.

​c. Notification of the time and place to appear before the
Superintendent or his/her designee, said time to be not earlier than
three (3) nor more than five (5) school days after the notice is given,
unless an extension is granted by the Superintendent at the request of
the student, parent, guardian, or custodian, or their representative. If
an extension is granted after giving the original notice, the
Superintendent shall notify the student, parent, guardian, custodian, or
representative of the new time and place for the hearing.

​3. The student and the parent, guardian, or custodian and their
representative must be given an opportunity to appear before the
Superintendent or his/her designee to challenge the reasons for the
intended expulsion or to explain the student's actions.

​4. If the student is expelled after the hearing, the Superintendent
will notify the student's parents, guardian, or custodian, and the
Treasurer of the Board within twenty-four (24) hours. This notice shall
include:

​a. the reasons for expulsion;

​b. the right of the student, parent, guardian, or custodian to appeal
said expulsion to the Board or its designee;

​c. the right to be represented at the appeal before the Board or its
designee;

​d. the right to request that the hearing before the Board or its
designee be in executive session;

​e. the duration of the expulsion and any other requirements;

​f. if at the time of the expulsion, there are fewer days remaining in
the school year than the number of days of the expulsion, the
Superintendent may apply any or all of the remaining period to the
following school year.

​5. A verbatim and/or audio record shall be kept of the hearing before
the Board or its designee.

​6. A notice of intent to appeal must be filed in writing within
fourteen (14) days of the Superintendent's decision to expel to the
Board or its designee through the Superintendent's office.

​7. While a hearing before the Board or its designee may occur in
executive session, the Board must act in public.

​8. Under State law, the decision of the Board may be further appealed
to the Court of Common Pleas.

**C. Emergency Removal**

Whenever a student's presence poses a continuing danger to persons or
property or an on-going threat of disrupting the academic process within
the classroom or elsewhere on school premises, school personnel may take
the following actions:

​1. The Superintendent, Assistant Superintendent, Principal, or
Assistant Principal may remove the student from the school premises.

​2. A teacher may remove the student from any activity under the
teacher's supervision.

​3. These actions may be taken without notice or hearing to the student.

​4. If the student is removed by a teacher under this section, the
teacher shall submit the reasons for said removal in writing to the
principal.

​5. If a student is removed by a teacher under this section, written
notice of a hearing and the reasons for removal shall be given to the
student as soon as practicable prior to the hearing and said hearing
will be held within seventy-two (72) hours from the time of the initial
removal.

​6. The hearing will be held in accordance with the requirements under
the rules for suspension set forth in Section A unless expulsion is
probable, in which case, the hearing shall be held in accordance with
the expulsion rules set forth in Section B except that said hearing
shall be held within seventy-two (72) hours of the student's removal
from activities.

​7. The party ordering, causing, or requesting the removal of the
student on an emergency basis shall be present at the hearing.

​8. In the case of removal under Section C (2), if a student is
reinstated to the activity under the teacher's supervision prior to a
hearing, the teacher shall, upon request, be given the reasons for such
reinstatement in writing.

**D. Removal**

None of the notice or hearing requirements set forth in Sections A and B
above shall be necessary where a student is removed from activities for
a period less than twenty-four (24) hours and is not subject to
suspension and/or expulsion.

The Superintendent shall initiate proceedings to expel a student even if
the student has withdrawn from school prior to the hearing or decision
to impose the expulsion. If, following the hearing, the student
re-enrolls in school, the expulsion may be imposed for the same length
of time as for a student who has not withdrawn from the school.

The Superintendent may expel a student for up to one (1) year if the
student commits an act at school or on other school property that is a
criminal offense if committed by an adult and that results in serious
physical harm to either persons or property while the student is at
school, on any property owned or controlled by the Board, or at any
other school program or activity.

The Board also authorizes the Superintendent to suspend a student from
any or all co-curricular or extra-curricular activities for violations
of the Code of Conduct. The length of suspension shall be in accordance
with the discipline code.

If the Superintendent determines that a student's behavior on a school
vehicle violates school rules, s/he may suspend the student from school
bus-riding privileges for the length of time deemed appropriate for the
violation and remediation of the behavior after providing the student
with an informal hearing to review the allegations.

The Board authorizes the Superintendent to provide for options to
suspension/expulsion of a student from school. These options may include
alternative educational options which shall include a program whereby a
student performs community service either in lieu of, or as part of a
suspension or an expulsion. The Superintendent shall develop guidelines
that describe the conditions under which a student may participate in
community service and define the types of services considered "service
to the community." A student may serve community service in conjunction
with his/her expulsion but not in place of an expulsion for a firearm.

The Superintendent is authorized to establish administrative procedures
for implementing this policy in compliance with applicable statutes.
Such procedures shall also described the conditions under which a
student may participate in community service and define the types of
services considered "service to the community."

A copy of this policy shall be made available to students and parents
upon request. Key provisions of the policy should also be included in
the parent-student handbook.

**E. Permanent Exclusion**

"Permanent exclusion" shall mean the student is banned forever from
attending a public school in the State of Ohio (see Policy 5610.01).

**F. Denial of Suspended or Expelled Student**

A student who has been suspended or expelled by another district
temporarily may be denied admission to the District's schools during the
period of suspension or expulsion even if that student would otherwise
by entitled to attend school with the District. Prior to denying
admission, however, the Superintendent shall offer the student an
opportunity for a hearing to review the circumstances of the suspension
or expulsion and any other factors the Superintendent determines to be
relevant.

The Board designates the Superintendent as its representative at all
hearings regarding the appeal of a suspension or expulsion.

R.C. 2919.222, 3313.534, 3313.66, 3313.661, 3313.662, 3313.663,
3313.664\
 R.C. 3321.13(B)(3), and (C), 3327.014\
 18 U.S.C. Section 921\
 20 U.S.C. 3351, 20 U.S.C. 7151, 20 U.S.C. 8921

Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 7/28/92\
 Revised 5/11/93\
 Revised 9/12/95\
 Revised 10/24/95\
 Revised 2/25/99\
 Revised 12/21/99\
 Revised 2/11/03\
 Revised 6/24/03\
 Revised 8/23/05\
 Revised 10/9/07\
 Revised 1/10/13
