---
layout: default
title: 5730 - EQUAL ACCESS OF STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education will not permit the use of school facilities by
non-school related organizations of students during school hours. No
group of secondary students, regardless of the size of the group, will
be denied an opportunity to meet on the basis of the religious,
political, philosophical, or other content of the speech at their
meeting.

An application for permission to meet on school premises shall be made
to the principal, who shall grant permission provided that s/he
determines that:

A. the activity has been initiated by students;

B. attendance at the meeting is voluntary;

C. no agent or employee of the District will promote, lead, or
participate in the meeting;

D. the meeting is for a lawful purpose;

E. the meeting does not materially and substantially interfere with the
orderly conduct of instructional activities in the school;

F. nonschool persons do not direct, conduct, control, or regularly
attend the activity; and

G. a faculty member voluntarily agrees if requested by the student to
attend.

A student-initiated group granted permission to meet on school premises
shall be subject to the same administrative guidelines that govern the
meetings of student organizations sponsored by this Board, except as
provided by this policy. Participation in a student-initiated meeting
must be available to all students who wish to attend and cannot be
denied on the basis of a student's race, color, creed, religion, gender,
national origin, disability, or social or economic status. The Board
will not permit the organization of a fraternity, sorority, or secret
society. A student-initiated meeting may be attended by no more than two
(2) outside resource person(s) unless authorized by the principal.

No teaching staff member shall be compelled to attend a
student-initiated meeting if the content of the speech at the meeting is
contrary to his/her beliefs.

The building principal may take such actions as may be necessary to
maintain order and discipline on school premises and to protect the
safety and well-being of students and staff members.

R.C. 3313.75, 3313.76, 3313.77\
 20 U.S.C. 4071 et seq.\
 Public Law 98-377

Revised 10/11/90
