---
layout: default
title: 5721 - STUDENT SPONSORED PUBLICATIONS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education respects the right of students to express
themselves and to distribute printed materials as a part of that
expression, but recognizes that the exercise of that right must be
limited by the responsibility to maintain an orderly school environment
and to protect the rights of all members of the school community.

For purposes of this policy, "publications" shall include any written or
printed cards, letters, circulars, books, pamphlets, notices, banners,
newspapers, or other like materials but shall not include any newspaper,
periodical, or book the publication of which is sponsored by this Board.

Such publications may include material not prepared by the student
himself/herself.

The Board reserves the right to designate and prohibit the distribution
of publications which are not protected by the right of free expression
because they violate the rights of others. Such unprotected materials
include but are not limited to those which:

A. are grossly prejudicial to an ethnic, religious, racial, or other
delineated group;

B. libel any specific person or persons;

C. seek to establish the supremacy of a particular religious
denomination, sect, or point of view over any other religious
denomination, sect, or point of view;

D. advocate the use or advertise the availability of any substance or
material which may reasonably be believed to constitute a direct and
substantial danger to the health of students;

E. contain obscenity or material otherwise deemed to be harmful to
impressionable students who may receive them;

F. incite violence, advocate the use of force or urge the violation of
law or school guidelines;

G. advertise goods or services for the benefit of profit making
organizations;

H. fail to identify the student or organization responsible for
distribution;

I. are offered for sale to other students;

J. solicit funds for nonschool organizations or institutions when such
solicitations have not been approved by the Board.

The Board shall require that students who wish to distribute materials
must submit them for prior review. Where the reviewer cannot show within
two (2) school days that the materials are unprotected, or where
unprotected material is deleted or modified so as to be no longer
unprotected, such material may be distributed. Appeal from prior review
shall be permitted to the Superintendent and Board in accordance with
District rules.

The Board shall require that the distribution of printed materials take
place only at the places and during the times set forth in the
administrative guidelines of this District in order that such
distribution not interfere with the orderly operation of the schools.

The Superintendent shall develop administrative guidelines for the
distribution of student publications.

R.C. 3313.20, 3599.09

Revised 3/18/88
