---
layout: default
title: 5771 - SEARCH AND SEIZURE
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education recognizes that the privacy of students may not
be violated by unreasonable search and seizure and directs that no
student be searched without reason or in an unreasonable manner.

The Board acknowledges the need for in-school storage of student
possessions and shall provide storage places, including desks and
lockers, for that purpose. Such spaces remain the property of the Board
and, in accordance with law, may be the subject of random search. Where
locks are provided for such places, students may lock them against
incursion by other students, but in no such places shall students have
such an expectation of privacy as to prevent examination by a school
official.

School authorities are charged with the responsibility of safeguarding
the safety and well-being of the students in their care. In the
discharge of that responsibility, school authorities may search the
person or property of a student, including vehicles, with or without the
student's consent, whenever they reasonably suspect that the search is
required to discover evidence of a violation of law or of school rules.
The extent of the search will be governed by the seriousness of the
alleged infraction and the student's age. Search of a student's person
or intimate personal belongings shall be conducted by a person of the
student's gender. This authorization to search shall also apply to all
situations in which the student is under the jurisdiction of the Board.

Whenever possible, a student search will be conducted by the principal
in the presence of a staff member other than the principal. A search
prompted by the reasonable belief that health and safety are immediately
threatened will be conducted with as much speed and dispatch as may be
required to protect persons and property. Administrators are permitted
to conduct a random search of any student lockers and its contents at
any time, providing proper notice has been posted in the locker areas of
each building.

The Board also authorizes the use of canines, trained in detecting the
presence of drugs, when the Superintendent has reasonable suspicion that
illegal drugs may be present in a school. This means of detection shall
be used only to determine the presence of drugs in locker areas and
other places on school property where such substances could be
concealed. Canine detection must be conducted in collaboration with law
enforcement authorities and is not to be used to search individual
students unless a warrant has been obtained prior to the search.

The principal shall be responsible for the prompt recording in writing
of each student search, including the reasons for the search;
information received that established the need for the search; the
persons present when the search was conducted; any substances or objects
found; and the disposition made of them. The principal shall be
responsible for the custody, control, and disposition of any illegal
dangerous substance or object taken from a student. Drugs, alcohol,
paraphernalia or lighters that are confiscated will not be returned. Any
evidence confiscated that may be connected to a criminal act will be
turned over to the school resource officer.

R.C. 3313.20

Revised 5/12/92\
 Revised 5/11/93\
 Revised 8/1/11
