---
layout: default
title: 6110 - FEDERAL FUNDS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

It is the objective of the Board of Education to provide equal
educational opportunities for all students within the District.
Therefore, it is the intent of the Board to study Federal legislation to
provide better educational opportunities, better educational
environment, and better physical and mental growth for each student.

The Superintendent shall review new Federal education legislation and
prepare proposals for programs s/he deems would be of aid to the
students of this District. The Board shall approve participation in each
proposed program.

The Board regards available Federal funds of aid to local school
districts and communities as a public trust. It forbids the use of
Federal monies for partisan political activities and for any use that
would not be in accord with Federal guidelines on discrimination. All
Federal funds received by the District will be used in accordance with
the applicable Federal law. The Treasurer/CFO shall ensure that each
draw of Federal monies is as close as administratively feasible to the
related program expenditures.

No Federal funds received by the Board shall be used to:

A. develop or distribute materials, or operate programs or courses of
instruction directed at youths, that are designed to promote or
encourage sexual activity, whether homosexual or heterosexual;

B. distribute or aid in the distribution by any organization of legally
obscene materials to minors on school grounds;

C. provide sex education or HIV-prevention in schools unless that
instruction is age appropriate and includes the health benefits of
abstinence; or

D. operate a program of contraceptive distribution in schools.

Compliance Supplement for Single Audits of State and Local Governments\
 20 U.S.C. 7906

Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 2/11/03\
 Revised 1/24/06
