---
layout: default
title: 6152.01 - WAIVER OF SCHOOL FEES FOR INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Springboro Community City School District shall waive fees assessed
by the District for instructional materials only for students whose
parent(s) or guardian are unable to afford them. The Superintendent may,
as deemed necessary, establish additional procedures to supplement the
procedures established in this policy regarding the requests for the
waiver of fees. This waiver does not include District fees associated
with extra-curricular activities or student enrichment programs that are
not part of a course of instruction.

### Eligibility Standards

Students eligible for a waiver of school fees include, but are not
limited to, the following:

A.

Students who qualify for aide under Ohio Works First (R.C. 5107) or
Disability Assistance (R.C. 5115).

B.

Students who qualify for free lunch under the National School Lunch Act.

C.

Students whose families have suffered very significant financial losses
due to severe illness or injury in the family or unusual expenses
including, but not limited to, fire, flood, or storm damage.

D. Other good and just reasons.

### Notification to Parents

A. Annually the substance of this policy shall be communicated in
writing to the parent(s) or guardian of all students in the District.

B. The first bill or notice sent to parents or guardians who owe fees
shall state:

​1. The District will waive fees for persons unable to afford them in
accordance with its policy

​2. The procedure for applying for a fee waiver, and the name, address
and telephone number of the person to contact for information concerning
a fee waiver.

### Procedures for Resolution of Disputes

A. A parent(s) or guardian who cannot pay school fees may write a letter
requesting a waiver of fees to the Superintendent. The letter must
contain the following:

​1. name(s) of student(s)

​2. name of parent(s) or guardian(s)

​3. address of parent(s) or guardian(s)

​4. phone number of parent(s) or guardian(s)

​5. school where child(ren) attend(s)

​6. reason for request for waiver of fees

The Superintendent shall have the authority to review the waiver request
and request such further information, if any, as s/he deems necessary in
order to make a decision on that request.

B. No fee shall be collected from any parent(s) or guardian who is
seeking a fee waiver in accordance with the District's policy until the
District has acted on the initial request or appeal (if any is made),
and the parent(s) or guardian have been notified of the decision.

C. If the Superintendent or designee denies a request for fee waiver,
then a copy of the decision shall be mailed to the parent(s) or guardian
within fifteen (15) school days of receipt of the request. The decision
shall state the reason for the denial and shall inform the parent(s) or
guardian of the right to appeal, including the process and timelines for
that action. The denial notice shall also include a statement informing
the parent(s) or guardian that reapplication may be made for a waiver
any time during the school year, if circumstances change. The decision
of the Superintendent or designee is final.

### Nondiscrimination

The Board expects all staff members to exercise the utmost care to see
that, as a result of their actions or comments, students cannot
differentiate between those students whose parents are unable to
purchase required instructional materials or pay required fees and those
whose parents can.

Adopted 4/22/08\
 Revised 2/22/11
