---
layout: default
title: 6231 - APPROPRIATIONS AND SPENDING PLAN
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The annual appropriation measure shall be designed to carry out District
operations in a thorough and efficient manner, maintain District
facilities properly, and honor continuing obligations of the Board of
Education.

The Board may**establish a Board Service Fund which shall not exceed the
greater of two dollars (\$2.00) per enrolled student or \$20,000. The
Board Service Fund shall be set aside from the General Fund, on an
annual basis, by resolution of the Board and shall be used to pay
expenses actually incurred by Board members in the performance of the
official duties. Such fund may also be used to pay for the expenses
actually incurred by newly elected Board members relative to training
and orientation to the performance of their duties prior to taking
office. Appropriations from this fund shall not exceed the sum specified
by R.C. 3315.15 in any one school year.

An annual appropriations resolution shall be developed, approved, and
filed according to statute and the requirements of the Auditor of the
State of Ohio.

The appropriation measure shall be adopted at the fund level for all
funds.

The Board shall adopt as part of its annual appropriation measure a
spending plan (also known as a forecast), as prescribed by statute, or
in the case of an amendment or supplement to an appropriation measure,
an amended spending plan setting forth a projection of revenue,
expenditures, and assumptions. The forecast shall include the General
Fund, any special cost center associated with General Fund money,
Emergency Levy funds, any Debt Service activity that would otherwise
have gone to the General Fund, DPIA, and Poverty Based Assistance (PBA)
funds. A copy of the annual appropriation measure and any amendment or
supplement to it and the spending plan or amended plan shall be
submitted to the Superintendent of Public Instruction and shall set
forth all revenues available for appropriation by the District during
such year and their sources; the nature and amount of expenses to be
incurred during the year; the outstanding and unpaid expenses on the
date the measure, amendment, or supplementis adopted; the dates by which
such expenses must be paid; and any other information the Superintendent
or State law requires.

The plan, amended plan, and updates shall be presented in such detail
and form and at such times as the Superintendent of Public Instruction
or State law prescribes.

R.C. 3313.15, 3316.031, 5705.13, 5705.29, 5705.36, 5705.38(B), 5705.391\
 R.C. 5705.41, 5705.412, 5705.45\
 A.C. 3301-92-04

Revised 6/23/98\
 Revised 6/28/05\
 Revised 6/28/11
