---
layout: default
title: 6320 - COMPETITIVE BIDDING
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The following policy is adopted for the guidance of the administrative
staff in identifying those items for which competitive bids must be
obtained, to ensure compliance with State statutes, and to delegate the
authority necessary to conduct the bidding procedures in an orderly and
efficient manner.

Whenever the Board of Education builds, repairs, or enlarges a
schoolhouse, whether by purchase, contract, or agreement including
acquisition by sale, lease, exchange, discount, negotiation, mortgage,
pledge, lien, issue or reissue, or any other voluntary transaction for
consideration creating an interest in property not made by contract or
agreement, such transaction shall be subject to bidding whenever the
aggregate value of such purchase exceeds \$25,000.

Annually the Board shall adopt a resolution to participate in Ohio's
Cooperative Purchasing Act. The Agreement will be through the State of
Ohio, Department of Administrative Services, Office of Cooperative
Purchasing for the purchase of supplies, services, furnishings,
equipment and certain materials as deemed by the Superintendent and
Treasurer. Purchases made through this program may exceed the \$25,000
bid limit.

Bids shall be opened publicly by the Treasurer before one (1) or more
witnesses at a previously designated time and place. Contracts shall be
awarded to the lowest responsible bidder upon resolution of the Board,
unless the Board chooses to reject all bids.

Whenever a contractor shall submit a bid for the performance of work and
the contractor later claims a mistake, error, or omission in preparing
said bid, the contractor shall, before the bids are open, make known the
fact and in such case, the bid shall be returned unopened.

In cases of urgent necessity, the above procedures may be dispensed with
by resolution of the Board.

R.C. 9.25, 9.30, 9.31, 9.312, 153.12, 3313.37, 3313.46, 5705.41, 5705.45

Revised 1/12/99\
 Revised 3/14/06
