---
layout: default
title: 6460 - VENDOR RELATIONS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education shall not enter a contract knowingly with any
supplier of goods or services to this District under which any Board
member or officer, employee, or agent of this School District has any
pecuniary or beneficial interest, direct or indirect, unless the person
has not solicited the contract or participated in the negotiations
leading up to the contract. This prohibition shall not prevent any
person from receiving royalties upon the sale of any educational
material of which s/he is the author and which has been properly
approved for use in the schools of this District.

Board members and school personnel shall not accept any form of
compensation from vendors that might influence their recommendations on
the eventual purchase of equipment, supplies, or services. Furthermore,
Board members and school personnel shall not accept any compensation
from a vendor after a decision has been made to purchase equipment,
supplies, or services from said vendor. In addition, Board members or
school personnel who recommend purchases, shall not enter into a
contractual arrangement with a vendor seeking to do business with the
District, or a vendor with whom the District is doing business, whereby
an individual Board member or member of the school staff receives
compensation in any form for services rendered.

Such compensation includes, but is not limited to, cash, checks, stocks,
or any other form of securities, and gifts such as televisions,
microwave ovens, computers, discount certificates, travel vouchers,
tickets, passes, and other such things of value. In the event that a
Board member or member of the school staff receives such compensation,
albeit unsolicited, from a vendor, the Board member or school staff
member shall notify the Treasurer, in writing, that s/he received such
compensation and shall thereafter promptly transmit said compensation to
the Treasurer at his/her earliest opportunity.

Employee accrual of personal frequent-flyer miles, hotel "bonus points",
credit card "rewards", or any other reward under such affinity programs
(including credit points or rewards directed to non-profit
organizations) or other merchant "rewards" programs as a result of a
District purchase is strictly prohibited.

All sales persons, regardless of product, shall clear with the
Superintendent's office before contacting any teachers, students, or
other personnel of the School District. Purchasing personnel shall not
show any favoritism to any vendor. Each order shall be placed in
accordance with policies of the Board on the basis of quality, price,
and delivery with past service a factor if all other considerations are
equal.

In accordance with State law and Policy [**4121**](po4121.md) and
Policy 8142, a criminal background check is required of any non-teaching
employee, including individuals employed by a private company/vendor
under contract with the Board to provide essential school services who
will work within the District in a position which does not require a
license issued by the State Board of Education, is not for the operation
of a vehicle for student transportation, but does involve routine
interaction with a child or regular responsibility for the care, custody
or control of a child.

A private person or entity with whom the Board enters into frequent
contracts may apply for pre-certification. Pre-certification is specific
to the District and is effective for one (1) year at time.

R.C. 2909.33, 3319.391, 3319.392\
 Auditor's Bulletin 2000-006

Revised 1/23/07\
 Revised 4/22/08\
 Revised 2/4/09\
 Revised 6/28/11\
 Revised 2/14/13
