---
layout: default
title: 6610 - STUDENT ACTIVITY FUND
---

{{ page.title }}
================

It is the purpose of this policy to establish financial controls for the
administration of the normal, legitimate co-curricular activities of the
student body organization which promote the general welfare, education,
and morale of all students.

For purposes of this policy, a "student activity fund" include all Board
approved co-curricular and extra-curricular groups.

Each student activity fund covered by this policy must be recognized by
the Board of Education before monies can be collected or disbursed in
the name of said activity. Any and all proposed expenditures from a
student activity fund must be approved by the Board or its designee
prior to disbursement and must serve a valid and proper public purpose.

The Superintendent is directed to review annually a list and brief
description of the objectives, activities, and limitations of each fund
prior to the start of the new fiscal year.

The Treasurer of the Board shall be the Treasurer of the student
activities fund. S/He may delegate responsibility to the building
cashier.

The Board authorizes the Treasurer to act on its behalf to review and
approve each expenditure from a student activity fund prior to
disbursement. On approving an expenditure, the Treasurer shall ensure
that it is related to achieving one (1) or more of the stated purposes
for which the student activity account has been organized and will serve
a valid and proper public purpose. An expenditure may consist of a
donation to an organization or individual for a purpose deemed
appropriate by the Treasurer. An expenditure shall not be approved if it
accrues to the personal benefit of a member of the staff or a member of
the student group. Monies are not to be disbursed to a school class or
group for any activity that will occur after the students have
graduated.

Fund raising for all student activities requires the prior approval of
the building principal and Superintendent.

In compliance with the laws of the State for the establishment and
maintenance of a student activity fund the following guidelines shall
govern such District fund:

A. The gross amount of monies received and paid out in connection with
student activity funds shall be recorded through Board accounts.

B. Funds collected shall be turned in to the building cashier or
Treasurer within twenty-four (24) hours.

C. Records shall be maintained of the receipt and disbursement of all
such monies in accounts according to the activity involved.

D. An invoice or voucher shall be obtained to verify payment.

E. Disbursements from the fund are not exempt from bidding statutes.

F. No educational materials may be purchased from these funds, except as
deemed appropriate by the Treasurer and in accordance with the activity,
purpose, and budget statement.

G. All funds accumulated in the name of a specific class or discontinued
activity must be withdrawn from that account within one (1) year
following graduation of said class or discontinuance of such activity in
order to meet any outstanding bills and any residual funds shall be
designated to another student activity in the building as directed by
the building principal and activity advisor where they shall be expended
in accordance with any rules applicable to that account.\

In no event shall a balance be divided among members of the class.

H. A financial report of the condition of each student activity fund
shall be submitted to the Board monthly.

R.C. 9.39, 3313.47, 3313.51, 3313.53, 3315.01, 3315.062\
 R.C. 3315.12, 3315.14, 3317.024, 5705.41, 5705.412\
 A.C. 117-2-18, 117-2-20

Revised 8/10/93\
 Revised 1/12/99\
 Revised 6/28/05
