---
layout: default
title: 7100 - FACILITIES PLANNING
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education recognizes that careful, prudent planning is
essential to the efficient operation of the schools and that planning
must be grounded on accurate data. In order to assure that future
District construction supports the educational program and responds to
community needs, the Board will prepare a permanent improvements plan
and will revise that plan periodically thereafter. The plan shall
include a thorough description and analysis of local and regional
demographic factors which influence general population growth and public
school enrollments.

In order to apprise the Board of the continuing relevance of the Board's
permanent improvements plan, the Superintendent shall:

A. annually report to the Board on the number of resident students
attending school by participating districts and the number of new
residential units approved;

B. report to the Board on the enrollment by grades during the school
year annually;

C. conduct a "kindergarten registration" each spring of the number of
students who will be enrolled in the schools of the District in
September of the year in which the estimate is made and report the
results to the Board;

D. prepare student population projections every year and compare the
actual population figures to the previously projected figures to detect
early for the benefit of the Board any changes in population trends.

In planning for the enlargement or modification of its facilities, the
Board shall consider not only the number of children whose educational
needs must be met, but also the physical requirements of the program it
deems best suited to meet those needs. Each school building and site
shall provide suitable accommodations to carry out the educational
program of the school including provision for the disabled, pursuant to
law and regulation.

Consideration shall be given to the use of buildings for vocational
purposes offered by school districts participating in this District.

R.C. 3313.94\
 A.C. 3301-51, 3301-35-03 (C)
