---
layout: default
title: 7300 - DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education believes that the efficient administration of the
District requires the disposition of real property and personal property
no longer necessary for the educational program or the operation of the
School District.

All property considered for disposition (sale) may be subjected to a
current, outside, professional appraisal prior to the solicitation of
offers.

Personal property, the value of which does not exceed \$10,000, shall be
disposed of by the Superintendent in such a manner as will be in the
public interest and benefit the School District (See Policy 7310).

Real property, the value of which does not exceed \$10,000, shall be
disposed of by the Board in such a manner as will be in the public
interest and benefit to the School District.

Property, the value of which exceeds \$10,000, shall be sold at public
sale to the highest bidder in accordance with law.

Unless, the property is being sold to an exempt entity, as defined in
R.C. 3313.41( C) or the property is being exchanged for an identified
parcel of real property that the Board determines it needs for school
purposes or the property is being used as part or an entire
consideration for the purchase price of the identified real property,
pursuant to R.C. 3313.41(F), the District shall attempt to sell the
property by public auction after giving proper thirty (30) day notice.

If, after the property has been offered, once by public auction, no
acceptable bids have been received, the following procedures shall
apply:

A. All written offers on real property under consideration for
disposition shall be presented as an item on the agenda of a public
Board meeting. A preliminary review of offers to purchase or lease shall
include; source of offer, date of offer, expiration date of offer, and
intended use of property.

B. All property considered for lease or sale shall be reviewed by the
Board prior to solicitation of offers. The solicitation of offers by the
Board shall include an expiration date.

C. Selected legal counsel and the Superintendent are the authorized
agents of the Board to review all purchase or lease offers pertaining to
sale or lease of property. The Board shall give final approval of all
contracts.

D. In consideration of the best interest of the District and of the
residents and taxpayers, the Board reserves the right to reject any and
all offers at its sole discretion, regardless of price and terms.

E. Potential purchasers or leasees shall demonstrate financial
capability to meet the terms and conditions of their purchase or lease
offer.

R.C. 3313.17 ,3313.40, 3313.41

Revised 3/12/02
