7450 - PROPERTY INVENTORY
=========================

### Purpose:

The purpose of this policy is to establish a historical comprehensive
inventory system of items owned by the Board of Education with a value
in excess of \$500.00 and those items designated by the Treasurer to be
subject to inventory.

The Board recognizes the appropriateness of a historical agency
inventory policy insuring accurate accountability of the assets of the
Board.

### INVENTORIES

It is the purpose of these procedures to implement a comprehensive
inventory system of all items owned by the Board with an original value
greater than \$500.00.

### RESPONSIBILITY:

The responsibility for initial identification and tagging (item
identification) lies with the Treasurer.

Responsibility for updating the location of inventory items and
maintaining current information lies with each principal.

Responsibility for maintaining current information after principals have
updated information lies with the Treasurer.

Overall responsibility for coordination and inventory system operation
lies with the Treasurer.

### INVENTORY SYSTEM (GENERAL):

The District will use the EIS (Equipment Inventory System) program
available with the State approved software through SWOCA (Southwest Ohio
Computer Association). Information on inventory items (as defined above)
consists of adding new items, updating location or other information and
disposal of items.

The following procedures apply:

### ADDING NEW ITEMS:

The EIS inventory program provides an opportunity to add purchased items
while in INVOICE PROCESSING. Donated items can be added directly into
the program. Prenumbered inventory tags to affix to inventoried items
will be assigned and distributed from the office of the Treasurer. These
items will then appear on the inventory listings when printed.

### UPDATING ITEM LOCATION:

Each year an updating of inventory items will be done. A listing of all
inventory items will be provided to each principal. It is the
principal's responsibility to:

A. Confirm the correct location of all inventory items.

B. Update location information if the item has been moved from its
location by writing on the sheets provided for the changed information.

C. Confirm that all appropriate items have been added to the inventory.

D. If an item has been moved to another building, indicate next to the
item - "To Building \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_". If an item has been moved
**into** your building, simply write at the bottom of the inventory that
the item is to be added to your building.

E. If an item has been removed for disposal from your building, simply
write "disposed". It will be taken care of as a disposed item through
maintenance inventory.

When the principal completes the inventory, s/he should initial it and
return it to the business office. The changes will be updated and final
listings returned to the principal. S/He should review the changes, note
any corrections, sign and return. The inventory completed on 06-30- \_\_
is the official inventory of the Board. A complete listing will be
maintained by the Treasurer.

### DISPOSAL OT ITEMS:

Please refer to Board procedures for disposal of assets.

### SPECIAL SITUATIONS:

During this inventory process, the following special situations may
occur:

A. If an item appears that is not in your school, review the item
description, location, and other information; the wrong building number
may have been entered. If this is the case, note the change
appropriately as an update.

B. If an item, in inventory, is not anywhere in your building or in the
school system, it should be reported to the Superintendent, Treasurer or
Director of Operations. If circumstances warrant, a police report will
be filed.

Revised 4/23/93\
 Revised 1/25/00
