7455 - FIXED ASSETS
===================

### PURPOSE:

The purpose of this policy is to establish a procedure for maintaining a
fixed asset accounting system that will contain sufficient data to
permit:

A. the preparation of year-end financial statements in accordance with
G.A.A.P.;

B. adequate insurance coverage;

C. control and accountability of all fixed assets.

### CRITERIA FOR FIXED ASSET CAPITALIZATION:

A. the asset purchased/acquired has a useful life of one year or more;

B. the cost or dollar value of the asset is equal to or greater than
\$500.00;

C. the asset purchased/acquired does not meet the criteria for
capitalization but is classified a "controlled asset";

D. it is not a repair part or supply item.

### CONTROLLED ASSETS:

Assets purchase/acquired that do not meet the criteria for
capitalization, but require control, i.e. audio visual equipment. These
assets may be added to the inventory for control purposes only, as
determined by the Superintendent or Treasurer.

### QUANTITY PURCHASES:

This Board of Education elects to capitalize certain quantity purchases
that individually would not meet the criteria for fixed assets such as:
library books, textbooks and whole rooms of student furniture.

### VALUATION:

A. Fixed assets are to be valued at historical cost.

B. Donated fixed assets shall be valued at their estimated fair market
value on the date received.

### CLASSIFICATION:

Fixed assets shall be classified as follows:

### Useful life

A. Land

B. Buildings

30 to 50 years

C. Building improvement, major

repair

10 to 40 years

D. Furniture and fixtures

05 to 20 years

E. Machinery and equipment

05 to 20 years

F. Vehicles

05 to 10 years

G. Construction-in-progress

### TRANSFER OF FIXED ASSETS:

Transfer of fixed assets between buildings or departments shall be
initiated by department heads or principals and a written notification
sent to the office of the Treasurer.

### DISPOSAL OF ASSETS:

Disposal of assets shall be initiated by the building administrator,
Director of Support Services or the Superintendent. Assets with a
collective value of \$2000 will be disposed of by auction. Notification
of disposal will be sent to the Treasurer. Disposal of assets must be
approved by the Superintendent or his/her designee.

### DEPRECIATION:

Depreciation of fixed assets will be by use of the straight line method.
Depreciable life for each class of fixed asset will be established by
the Treasurer and recorded in the District inventory system for assets
in the Proprietary Funds.

### SALVAGE VALUE:

Salvage value will be maintained for assets in the Proprietary Funds.
Value will be established by the Treasurer, using accepted accounting
principles.

### FIXED ASSET MANAGER:

The Fixed Asset Manager shall be the Treasurer, or his/her designee. The
Fixed Asset Manager shall record all transactions of fixed assets to the
District accounts as required by the Auditor, State of Ohio. The
Building Administrator shall be accountable for the fixed assets
assigned to his/her building.

Adopted 4/23/93\
 Revised 1/25/00
