---
layout: default
title: 7440 - FACILITY SECURITY
---

{{ page.title }}
================

Buildings constitute the greatest financial investment of the District.
It is in the best interest of the Board of Education to protect the
District's investment adequately. The buildings and equipment owned by
the Board shall be protected from theft and vandalism in order to
maintain the optimum conditions for carrying out the educational
programs.

The Superintendent shall develop and supervise a program for the
security of the District's students, staff, visitors, school buildings,
school grounds, and school equipment in compliance with State and
Federal laws. Such a program may include the use of video surveillance
and electronic monitoring equipment in appropriate public areas in and
around the schools and other District facilities, and on school buses.

Every effort shall be made to apprehend those who knowingly cause
serious physical harm to students, staff, visitors, and Board property
and to require prosecution of those who bring harm to persons and/or
property. The Board will seek repair to rectify the damage or payment of
a fee to cover repairs. A reward may be offered for apprehending such
persons. Appropriate authorities may be contacted in the case of serious
offenses. The Superintendent is authorized to install metal detectors
and video surveillance/electronic monitoring equipment on school
property in order to protect the health, welfare and safety of students,
staff, visitors and Board property, and other security devices that
would assist in the detection of guns and dangerous weapons in school
buildings, on District property, and/or at Board-sponsored/controlled
events.

R.C. 2909.05, 3313.173, 3313.642\
 A.C. 3301-35-03

Revised 2/90\
 Revised 1/10/06\
 Revised 10/27/09
