---
layout: default
title: 7434 - USE OF TOBACCO ON SCHOOL PROPERTY
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education is committed to providing students, staff, and
visitors with a tobacco and smoke-free environment. The negative health
effects of tobacco use for both users and nonusers, particularly in
connection with second hand smoke, are well established. Further,
providing a non-smoking and tobacco-free environment is consistent with
the responsibilities of teachers and staff to be positive role models
for our students.

For purposes of this policy, "use of tobacco" means to chew or maintain
any substance containing tobacco, including smokeless tobacco, in the
mouth to derive the effects of tobacco, as well as all uses of tobacco,
including cigars, cigarettes, pipe tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, any
other matter or substances that contain tobacco, in addition to papers
used to roll cigarettes and/or the smoking of electronic, "vapor," or
other substitute forms of cigarettes, clove cigarettes and any other
lighted smoking devices for burning tobacco or any other substance.

In order to protect students and staff who choose not to use tobacco
from an environment noxious to them, and because the Board does not
condone smoking and/or the use of tobacco, the Board prohibits the use
of tobacco or tobacco substitute products within any enclosed facility
owned or leased or contracted for by the Board, and in the areas
directly or indirectly under the control of the Board immediately
adjacent to locations of ingress or egress to such facilities. This
prohibition extends to any Board-owned and/or operated vehicles used to
transport students and to all other Board-owned and/or operated
vehicles. Such prohibition also applies to school grounds and/or school
grounds and/or any school-related event.

The Superintendent shall require the posting of signs as required by
R.C. 3794.06 and as specified by the Ohio Department of Health.

R.C. 2923.12, 3313.20, 3313.47, 3313.751, 3794 et seq.\
 20 U.S.C. 6081 et seq., 20 U.S.C. 7182\
 U.S.D.O.E. Memorandum, 1995\
 A.C. 3701-52

Revised 1/10/89\
 Revised 8/10/93\
 Revised 4/29/03\
 Revised 1/10/06\
 Revised 10/9/07\
 Revised 6/28/11
