7420 - HYGIENIC MANAGEMENT
==========================

The Board of Education recognizes that the health and physical
well-being of the students of this District depends in large measure
upon the cleanliness and sanitary management of the schools.

The Board directs that a program of hygienic management be instituted in
the schools and explained to all staff members.

The Superintendent shall cooperate with the Board of Health in the
conduct of the inspection of each school building and grounds for
conditions dangerous to public health and safety not less than
semiannually. The Superintendent shall provide access to school premises
for the inspection(s) which shall be conducted during regular school
hours. The Superintendent shall provide records or information the Board
of Health considers necessary.

The Board shall review its policies and administrative guidelines
periodically to provide for the safety of students, employees, and other
persons using school facilities from any known health or safety hazards
in a school building or on school grounds. The Board shall comply with
Federal laws and regulations regarding health and safety applicable to
school buildings.

### Integrated Pest Management

The hygienic management plan shall include an Integrated Pest Management
program (IPM) for the control of structural and landscape pests that
minimizes the use of pesticides while addressing pest control.

### Wastes and Fluids

The Superintendent and/or designee shall prepare, in consultation with
the County Department of Health, procedures for the handling and
disposal of body wastes and fluids. Such procedures shall include the
protection of staff members who clean or handle blood or blood-soaked
items, vomitus, saliva, urine, or feces; the disinfection of surfaces
and items in contact with such matter; the disposal of such matter in
sealed containers; and the frequent and thorough cleansing of hands and
any other body parts that contact such matter (see Policy
[**8453**](po8453.htm) and Policy 8453.01).

The Superintendent and/or designee shall develop and supervise a program
for the cleanliness and sanitary management of the school buildings,
school grounds, and school equipment pursuant to law and the rules of
the Warren County Department of Health. The cleanliness of each school
building shall be the responsibility of the principal.

R.C. 3701.933, 3703.03, 3707.26, 3313.473, 3313.86, 3314.15, 3707.26\
 A.C. 3301-35-03 (C) (D)\
 A.C. 3701-54

Revised 1/10/06\
 Revised 2/22/11
