---
layout: default
title: 7543 - UTILIZATION OF THE DISTRICT'S WEBSITE AND REMOTE ACCESS TO THE DISTRICT'S NETWORK
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board encourages employees, parents, students and community members
to check the District's website regularly for changes to these resources
and for the addition of other resources. Some resources may require a
user name and password, or a login procedure due to the personally
identifiable nature of the information provided through that resource
(e.g., the gradebook program and e-mail system). If a user name and
password, or login procedure, is necessary to access a resource,
information shall be provided on the website explaining who is eligible
for a user name and password, how to obtain a user name and password,
and detailed instructions concerning the login process.

Board members, District employees, students, and parents are permitted
to use their personally-owned or District-owned computers or
workstations and/or web-enabled devices of any type to remotely (i.e.
away from District property and facilities) access the Network. This
policy is limited to remote access connections that are used to do work
on behalf of or for the benefit of the District, including, but not
limited to, reading or sending e-mail and reviewing District-provided
intranet web resources and completing assigned coursework.

Each individual granted remote access privileges pursuant to this policy
must adhere to the following standards and regulations:

A. his/her device computer/device must have, at the minimum, the
anti-virus software specified in the District's standards for remote
access and connection

B. the individual may only access the Network using his/her assigned
user name and password\

The individual must not allow other persons, including family members,
to use his/her user name and password to login into the Network. The
user may not go beyond his/her authorized access.

C. his/her device may not be connected to any other network at the same
time s/he is connected to the Network, with the exception of personal
networks that are under the complete control of the user

D. his/her device may not, at any time while the individual is using
remote access to connect to the Network, be reconfigured for the purpose
of split tunneling or dual homing

E. use of the Network is contingent upon the individual abiding by the
terms and conditions of the District's Network and Internet Acceptable
Use and Safety policy and guidelines

Any user who violates this policy may be denied remote access and
connection privileges.

Any employee who violates this policy may be disciplined, up to and
including termination; any contractor, vendor or agent who violates this
policy may have his/her contract with the District terminated; and any
student who violates this policy may be disciplined up to and including
suspension and expulsion.

Adopted 3/22/11
