---
layout: default
title: 7540.02 - DISTRICT WEB PAGES
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education authorizes staff members and students to create
webpages/sites that will be hosted on Board owned or affiliated servers
and published on the Internet. The web pages/sites must reflect the
professional image of the District, its employees, and students. The
content of all pages must be consistent with the Board's Mission
Statement and staff-created web pages/sites are subject to prior review
and approval of the Superintendent or designee. Student-created web
pages/sites are subject to Policy [**5722**](po5722.html)
("School-Sponsored Student Publications and Productions"). The creation
of web pages/sites by students must be done under the supervision of a
professional staff member.

The purpose of web pages/sites hosted on the Board's servers is to
educate, inform and communicate. The following criteria shall be used to
guide the development of such web pages/sites:

A. **Educate**

Content should be suitable for and usable by students and teachers to
support the curriculum and the Board's Objectives as listed in the
Board's Strategic Plan.

B. **Inform**

Content may inform the community about the school, teachers, students,
or departments, including information about curriculum, events, class
projects, student activities, and departmental policies.

C. **Communicate**

Content may communicate information about the plans, policies and
operations of the District to members of the public and other persons
who may be affected by District matters.

The information contained on the Board's web site should reflect and
support the Board's Mission Statement, Educational Philosophy, and the
School Improvement Process.

When the content includes a photograph or information relating to a
student, the Board will abide by the provisions of Policy
[**8330**](po8330.html) - Student Records.

All links included on web pages must also meet the above criteria and
comply with State and Federal law (e.g. copyright laws, Children's
Internet Protection Act, ADA).

Under no circumstances is a web site to be used for commercial purposes,
advertising, political lobbying or to provide financial gains for any
individual. Included in this prohibition is the fact no web pages
contained on the District's web site may: (1) include statements or
other items that support or oppose a candidate for public office, the
investigation, prosecution or recall of a public official, or passage of
a tax levy or bond issue; (2) link to a web site of another organization
if the other web site includes such a message; or (3) communicate
information that supports or opposes any labor organization or any
action by, on behalf of, or against any labor organization. Nothing in
this paragraph shall prevent the Board from linking on the District's
web site to recognized news/media outlets (e.g., local newspapers' web
sites, local television stations' web sites).

Staff members are encouraged to create web pages/sites to be used to
post class assignments, provide supplemental coursework or resources,
turn in assignments, etc. provided they are hosted on Board owned or
affiliated servers.

Student progress reports, grades, etc. are to be accessible only through
Board approved student information systems (e.g. Progress Book) that
employees are required to use for the purpose of conveying information
to student and/or parents. These sites are to be password protected and
secure.

If a staff member creates a web page/site related to his/her class, it
must be hosted on the Board owned or affiliated servers.

Unless the web page/site contains student personally identifiable
information, Board web sites that are created by students and/or staff
members that are posted on the Internet should not be password protected
or otherwise contain restricted access features, whereby only employees,
student(s), or other limited groups of people can access the site.
Community members, parents, employees, staff, students, and other web
site users will generally be given full access to the sites created
pursuant to this policy.

Pages should reflect an understanding that both internal and external
audiences will be viewing the information.

School web sites must be located on Board owned or affiliated servers.

The Superintendent shall prepare administrative guidelines defining the
rules and standards applicable to the use of the Board's web site and
the creation of web pages/sites by staff and students.

The Board retains all proprietary rights related to the design of web
sites and/or pages that are hosted on the Board owned or affiliated
servers, absent written agreement to the contrary.

Students who want their class work to be displayed on the Board's web
site must have written parent permission and expressly license its
display without cost to the Board.

Prior written parental permission is necessary for a student to be
identified by name on the Board's web site.

R.C. 9.03\
 O.A.G. Opinion No. 2002-01

Adopted 12/21/99\
 Revised 3/22/11
