---
layout: default
title: 7510 - USE OF SCHOOL FACILITIES
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education believes that the public school facilities are
provided primarily for the education of the children of the School
District. The Board, however, encourages community use of buildings at
times when such use will not interfere with the original and necessary
purpose of the property and is consistent with the philosophy and goals
of the District.

The Board will permit the use of school buildings and facilities for
educational, civic, cultural, religious, and recreational as well as
political activities that are consistent with the primary purpose of the
schools, with State laws, and with the policies and guidelines of the
Board when permission has been requested in writing by a responsible
person representing an organization or group of citizens.

### Priority in Use of School Facilities

The requirements of the regular school academic and extra-curricular
program shall receive first priority in the use of school facilities.
School-related organizations such as the PTO's, music and athletic
boosters, or other approved booster organizations shall have priority
over nonschool related groups and organizations. Nonschool related
groups and members of groups who are residents of the School District
shall have priority over nonresident groups and organizations. More
specifically, the priority use of school facilities is outlined below.

### Use Group Definitions

Use Group A.

School Academic and Extra-Curricular Programs

Programs and activities associated with day-to-day instructional and
extra-curricular activities of the School District shall have first
priority in the scheduling of school facilities, and may use the
facilities free of charge.

Use Group B.

School Affiliated Organizations

Recognized school-related organizations such as the PTO and booster
organizations may use the facilities without charge\*.

Custodial, snow removal, food service, and technical support charges
will be assessed as necessary and required.

\*Wade Field, CareFlight Field, High School Commons, High School
Auditorium, High School and Junior High Gyms and Fields are exceptions
to this section, see below for charges.

Use Group C.

Community Affiliated Nonprofit Groups

Boy or Girl Scout groups, alumni, reunions, civic, recreational,
political, and other similar community affiliated, nonprofit groups may
use the facilities as prescribed in the attached cost sheet. Users in
this category may not use the facility for fundraising. Users in this
category wanting to fundraise will be considered as User Group D.

Custodial, snow removal, food service, and technical support charges
will be assessed as necessary and required.

Use Group D.

Other Community Affiliated Groups

A member of the community using a school facility for a personal family
gathering or a community group using the facility to raise funds for the
group shall pay for the use of the facility according to the approved
schedule of fees. Examples of such groups include societies,
associations, church groups, etc., that do not operate in a way that
directly benefits boys and girls and/or the community.

Custodial, snow removal, food service, and technical support charges
will be assessed as necessary and required.

Use Group E.

Nonschool Related/Community Affiliated Groups or Individuals

Groups or individuals not affiliated with the School District or
community may rent a school facility, Charges for use of the facilities
will be negotiated by the Superintendent or designee and approved by the
Board of Education.

Custodial, snow removal, food service, and technical support charges
will be assessed as necessary and required.

The use of school facilities shall not be granted to organizations for
the following purposes:

A.

any fund-raising activities, unless the proceeds thereof are used
exclusively for the benefit of the schools or community (except group E)

B.

activities promoting racial or religious prejudices

C.

partisan political activities that are unannounced and not open to the
public

D.

regular church services that are not due to emergency and for a
temporary time, unless there is an annual agreement

E.

any purpose prohibited by law

### Schedule of Building Use Fees

Outlined below is a schedule of fees charged to organizations using
school facilities and equipment. These charges will be reviewed annually
by the Superintendent or his/her designee and recommendations brought to
the Board for incorporation into this policy may be modified by the
Board as necessary and appropriate.

All fees for required custodial, food service, and technical support
workers and field managers, shall be based on the actual cost of the
employee's hourly wages.

When kitchens are rented, a minimum of one (1) food service employee
will be required to work in the kitchen. When the high school auditorium
is rented, a minimum of one (1) technical support employee will be
required to work in the auditorium. The need for custodial, food
service, technical support staff and/or field managers and the
assignment of fees have been delegated to the principal or athletic
director of the building for which the request is being made.

The authority and responsibility for approval of building use
applications, the assignment of needed custodial, food service,
technical support staff and/or field managers, and the assignment of
fees have been delegated to the principal of the building for which the
request is being made. Building principals are required to have user
groups B-E fill out the facility usage form and complete all necessary
information. Facility usage forms are completed at the building level,
with final approval given by the Director of Operations.

The Superintendent or designee shall have the authority to rent and
establish charges for the use of school grounds or facilities
specifically not mentioned in the attached list.

Use Group

Use Group

Use Group

A/B

C

D

Classroom

N/C

\$10.00

\$25.00

SI & Clearcreek School Cafeterias

N/C

\$10.00

\$30.00

Cafeteria DE/FP/JH

N/C

\$20.00

\$40.00

Stage DE/FP

N/C

\$10.00

\$20.00

School Kitchens (SI & Clearcreek)

N/C

\$20.00

\$35.00

School Kitchen DE/FP

N/C

\$20.00

\$65.00

School Kitchen High School

N/C

\$20.00

\$100.00

Elementary Gymnasium

N/C

\$10.00

\$35.00

SI/High School Aux/DE/FP Gymnasium

N/C

\$15.00

\$40.00

Charges for: Wade Field, CareFlight Field, High School Commons, High
School Auditorium, High School and Junior High Gyms and Fields are
exceptions to the chart above section, see below for charges.

User Group A

No Charges

User Groups B-E

Negotiated by Superintendent or Designee and Approved by the Board of
Education

### Waiving of Fees

School affiliated organizations shall not be charged usage fees for
building usage. Usage fees for any other group or event may be waived
for up to one year by a resolution of the Board. All waivers in fees
shall be documented in writing stating the name of the requesting
organization and the period for which fees are waived with copies
provided to the Superintendent and to the organization requesting the
waiver.

### Payment of Fees

Payment of fees shall be to the building principal, Athletic Director,
or district Treasurer. Payments received shall be forwarded to the
Treasurer within one business day.

### Assignment of Fund

Fees received for sports related activities shall be recorded in the
Athletic Fund or in the case of music related activity, use the Band
Fund. Fees received for the use of other facilities shall be recorded in
the General Fund.

### Conditions Governing the Use of School Facilities

A.

Requests for the use of school facilities shall be made in writing on a
form prescribed by the Superintendent or designee at least ten (10) days
prior to the time of intended use.

B.

All applicants must be approved by the Superintendent or designee.
Objections to building use procedures may be directed to the Business
Manager and/or the Superintendent.

C.

Users of school facilities or equipment shall present evidence of
organizational liability insurance as deemed necessary by school
officials.

D.

Users agree to indemnify and hold harmless the Board and its agents and
employees from all liability, claims, demands, damages, or costs for or
arising out of the use of facilities for any and all causes.

E.

The group, organization, or individual approved for building use shall,
as required by law, be responsible for damage done over and above the
ordinary wear to school property. The purchase of property and personal
liability insurance shall be the responsibility of the organization,
group, or individual using the facilities.

F.

The school's approval agent reserves the right to require, if s/he deems
it necessary, the posting of a cash bond or security deposit to cover
any damages that might be done to school property, equipment, or
grounds. Such a security deposit must be paid by the organization,
group, or individual requesting use of the facilities prior to approval
of said use.

G.

The Board reserves the right to cancel or refuse a request for building
use or deny future rentals to an organization if, in the sole discretion
of the Superintendent or his/her designee, a performance or activity is
found objectionable or not be of benefit, in the opinion of school
officials, to the school or the community. Said cancellation or refusal
to rent facilities may also be enforced if proper supervision and
control of the audience is neglected, or if these guidelines are not
enforced.

H.

All activities shall be restricted to the room(s) requested and
approved. Use of school equipment in conjunction with the use of school
facilities must be specifically requested in writing at the time
building use is requested, and shall be approved according to the same
procedure through which permission to use the facilities is granted. The
users of such school equipment shall accept liability for any damage or
loss to such equipment that occurs while it is in their possession and
use. Where rules so specify, no item of equipment may be used except by
a qualified operator.

I.

The approved use of school facilities and/or equipment may not be
transferred to any other person, group, or organization.

J.

Payment for any police protection as determined necessary by the sole
discretion of school officials shall be the responsibility of the
organization renting the building or part thereof.

K.

Any individual or person representing an organization requesting use of
school facilities shall assume full responsibility of these conditions
governing the use of school facilities. Said person must be at least
eighteen (18) years of age.

L.

The person accepting responsibility for an organization using the
building shall inform all persons using the facilities of these
conditions governing the use of school facilities.

M.

A person, group, or organization approved to use school facilities may
cancel the approved request by giving written notice to the respective
building principal at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the rental
date.

N.

A school custodian and/or school administrator or designee must be
present in the building during the times when school facilities are used
by outside groups. A cafeteria worker must be present when the kitchens
are used by outside groups. A technical support employee must be present
when the high school auditorium is used by outside groups. Any exception
to this regulation must be approved by the Superintendent or designee.
Groups who have demonstrated themselves as good tenants of the schools
facilities and require little or no custodial care may be eligible for
the exception.

O.

Groups wishing to serve/sell refreshments may do so only after approval
by the Superintendent or designee. Additional custodial fees may be
charged if refreshments are served. Organizations will secure proper
permits prior to the event and adhere to all requirements.

P.

Full payment of fees and other charges for use of school facilities must
be paid within thirty (30) days from the date of the invoice for such
charges. Late payments are subject to penalties and finance charges.

Q.

The priority for building use will always be given to school and
school-related organizations.

R.

On days when school is canceled due to inclement weather and/or other
emergencies, all building use requests may be canceled for that day.

S.

Individuals or organizations using a school gym for athletic purposes
shall observe the rule of requiring tennis shoes for all persons using
the gym floor.

T.

There will be no smoking permitted on school facilities.

U.

The possession and/or consumption of alcohol and/or drugs on school
premises is prohibited.

V.

The use of profanity by members of groups using school facilities will
not be tolerated.

W.

Users of school facilities shall be responsible for enforcing these
conditions governing use of school facilities and for properly
chaperoning all events held in school facilities.

No liability shall attach to the School District, any employee, officer,
or member of the Board specifically as a consequence of permitting
access to school facilities.

R.C. 3313.75-.79, 3501.29\
 P.L. 98-377

Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 8/27/91\
 Revised 8/10/93\
 Revised 9/14/93\
 Revised 11/24/98\
 Revised 9/13/05\
 Revised 9/9/08\
 Revised 10/27/09\
 Revised 12/11/12
