---
layout: default
title: 8310 - PUBLIC RECORDS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

It is the policy of the Springboro Community City School District Board
of Education (hereafter the "Board") that openness leads to a better
informed citizenship, which leads to better government and better public
policy. It is the policy of the Board to adhere to the State's Public
Records Act.

This Board, in accordance with the Ohio revised code, defines records as
including the following: Any document - paper, electronic (including,
but not limited to, e-mail), or other format - that is created or
received by, or comes under the jurisdiction of a public office that
documents the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures,
operations, or other activities of the office. All records of the
District are public unless they are specifically exempt from disclosure
under the Ohio revised code.

It is the policy of the Board that, as required by Ohio law, records
will be organized and maintained so that they are readily available for
inspection and copying (See Section 4 for the e-mail record policy).
Additionally, record retention schedules are to be updated regularly and
posted prominently.

### Record Requests

Each request for public records should be evaluated for a response using
the following guidelines:

A. Although no specific language is required to make a request, the
requester must at least identify the records requested with sufficient
clarity to allow the public office to identify, retrieve, and review the
records. If it is not clear what records are being sought, the records
custodian may deny the request but shall provide the requester with an
opportunity to revise the request by informing the requestor of the
manner in which the office keeps its records.

B. There is no requirement that an individual making a public records
request put a records request in writing or provide his/her identity or
the intended use of the requested public record. However, the Board may
ask a requester to make the request in writing, may ask the requester's
identity, and may inquire about the intended use, but only after
disclosing to the requester that a written request is not mandatory and
that the requester may decline to reveal the requester's identity or
intended use and when a written request or disclosure of the identity or
intended use would benefit the requester by enhancing the ability of the
public office or person responsible for public records to identify,
locate, or deliver the public records sought by the requester.

C. Public records are to be available for inspection during regular
business hours, with the exception of published holidays. Public records
shall be made available for inspection promptly. Copies of public
records must be made available within a reasonable period of time.
"Prompt" and "reasonable" shall take into account the volume of records
requested; the proximity of the location where the records are stored;
and the necessity for any legal review of the records requested.

D. Any denial of public records requested shall include an explanation,
including citation to legal authority. If portions of the record are
public and portions are exempt, the exempt portions are to be redacted
and the public portions released. If there are redactions, each
redaction must be accompanied by a supporting explanation, including
citation to legal authority.

### Costs for Public Records

Those seeking public records will be charged only the actual cost of
making copies.

A. The charge for paper copies is \$.10 per page.

B. The charge for downloaded computer files to a compact disc is \$1.00
per disc.

C. There is no charge for documents sent via e-mail.

D. Requesters may ask that documents be mailed to them. They will be
charged the actual cost of postage and mailing supplies.

### E-Mail

Documents in electronic mail format are records as defined by the Ohio
revised code when their content relates to the business of the office.
E-mail is to be treated in the same fashion as records in other formats
and should follow the same retention schedules:

A. Records if private e-mail accounts used to conduct public business
are subject to disclosure, and all employees or representatives of this
District are instructed to retain their e-mails that relate to public
business (see Section 1 Public Records) and to copy them to their
business e-mail accounts and/or to the office's records custodian.

B. The records custodian is to treat the e-mails from private accounts
as records of the public office, filing them in the appropriate way,
retaining them per established schedules and making them available for
inspection and copying in accordance with the Public Records Act.

C. E-mails that are not administratively necessary may be deleted.

### Failure to Respond to a Public Records Request

The Board recognizes the legal and non-legal consequences of failure to
properly respond to a public records request. In addition to the
distrust in government that failure to comply may cause, the Board's
failure to comply with a request may result in a court ordering the
Board to comply with law and to pay the requester attorney's fees and
damages.

Revised 3/28/01\
 Revised 6/22/04\
 Revised 9/23/08\
 Revised 2/4/09
