8320.01 - PERSONAL INFORMATION SYSTEMS
======================================

The Board of Education maintains a personal information ("PI") systems
and shall do so in accordance with the provisions of R.C. Chapter 1347.
The Board is committed to only collecting, maintaining, and using the
personal information that is necessary and relevant to it carrying out
the effective operation of the District. All personal information
maintained in the PI system shall be used in a lawful manner for
legitimate purposes consistent with the functions of the District.

Personal information is defined as "any information that describes
anything about a person, or that indicates actions done by or to a
person, or that indicates that a person possesses certain personal
characteristics, and that contains, and can be retrieved from a system
by, a name, identifying number, symbol, or other identifier assigned to
a person."

The Superintendent is directly responsible for the operation of the PI
system, including preparing and implementing rules that provide for the
operation of the information system. All employees responsible for
collecting, maintaining, and/or utilizing personal information
maintained in the PI system shall be provided a copy of any rules that
are promulgated and trained in how to comply with them and the
provisions of the law.

The Board shall discipline any employee or student who engages in the
unauthorized use or release of the personal information contained in the
PI system. In addition, the Board shall discipline any employee who
initiates or otherwise contributes to any disciplinary or other punitive
action against any individual who brings to the attention of appropriate
authorities, the press, or any member of the public, evidence of
unauthorized use of information contained in the PI system. Disciplinary
action shall be taken consistent with State and Federal law and any
applicable collective bargaining agreements, and may include action up
to and including termination.

Whenever a person is requested to supply personal information that will
be maintained in the PI system, the person will be informed whether s/he
is legally required to provide the personal information. If the person
is not legally required to provide the personal information, s/he may
refuse to supply the information and no adverse consequences will be
imposed as a result of the refusal.

The Board shall take reasonable precautions to protect personal
information maintained in the information system from unauthorized
modification, destruction, use, or disclosure. The Board shall eliminate
personal information from the PI system when it is no longer necessary
and relevant to the District carrying out its functions.

R.C. 1347.05

Adopted 2/22/11\
 Revised 2/28/13
