8320 - PERSONNEL FILES
======================

It is necessary for the orderly operation of the School District to
prepare a personnel information system for the retention of appropriate
papers bearing upon an employee's duties and responsibilities to the
District and the District's responsibilities to the employee.

The Board of Education requires that accurate, necessary, and relevant
records exist concerning an employee's qualifications for the job held;
compliance with Federal, State and Local benefit programs; conformance
with District rules; and job performance, including, but not limited to
completed evaluations of the employee. Such records will be kept in
compliance with the Ohio Revised Code.

The Board delegates the maintenance of a personnel information to the
Superintendent or designee.

A single central file shall be maintained, and subsidiary records shall
be maintained for ease in data gathering only as specified in the Board
employee agreement.

Employees asked to supply information for a personnel file shall be
informed whether the requested information is legally required. If it is
not, s/he may decline to supply the information.

Personnel records are predominantly public records and to that extent
must be made available for inspection and copying in accordance with
State and Federal laws pertaining to same. In accordance with the
Federal Privacy Act and case law, the Board shall refrain from
disclosing an employee's social security number when releasing personnel
records. Personnel records shall be monitored regularly to assure
compliance with this policy and the law. Records deemed no longer
accurate, relevant or necessary under this policy may be submitted to
the District Records Commission for disposal in accordance with law.

R.C. 149.41, 149.43, 1347 et seq.\
 Federal Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. Section 552a note\
 State ex rel. Beacon Journal Publishing Company v. City of Akron
(1994),\
 70 Ohio St. 3d, 640 N.E. 2d 164

Revised 6/22/04\
 Revised 7/25/06\
 Revised 4/22/08
