---
layout: default
title: 8400 - SCHOOL SAFETY
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education is committed to maintaining a safe and drug-free
environment in all of the District's schools. The Board believes that
school crime and violence are multifaceted problems that need to be
addressed in a manner that utilizes all available resources in the
community through a coordinated effort of school district personnel, law
enforcement agencies, and families. The Board further believes that
school administrators and local law enforcement officials must work
together to provide for the safety and welfare of students while they
are at school or a school-related event or are on their way to and from
school. The Board also believes that the first step in addressing school
crime and violence is to assess the extent and nature of the problem(s),
and then plan and implement strategies that promote school safety and
minimize the likelihood of school crime and violence.

### School Safety Plan

To that end, the Superintendent shall develop a School Safety Plan with
input from representatives of the local law enforcement agencies; the
local Fire Marshall(s) or his/her designee(s); representative(s) from
emergency medical services; members of the Board; building
administrators; representatives from the local emergency management
service agency; School Resource Officer(s); parents; and staff.

The School Safety Plan shall be comprehensive and consider each school
building under the Board's control. Thereafter, the Superintendent shall
convene a meeting every three (3) years for the purpose of reviewing the
School Safety Plan, and making modifications as deemed necessary and
proper; identifying additional training that might be needed; and
discussing any other such related matters as may be deemed to be
necessary by the participants. The Superintendent shall also convene a
meeting whenever a major modification to a school building requires
changes in the procedures outlined in the School Safety Plan.
Participants in this meeting shall include the Superintendent;
representatives of the local law enforcement agencies; the local Fire
Marshall(s) or his/her designee(s); representative(s) from emergency
medical services; building administrators; parents; staff; the School
Resource Officer and the School Nurse.

The Superintendent shall make a report to the Board about this review
and recommend the approval and adoption of any proposed revisions or
additions to the School Safety Plan.

Upon approval and adoption of the School Safety Plan by the Board, the
Superintendent shall file a copy of such Plan and a blueprint of each
building with the following:

A. each law enforcement agency that has jurisdiction over the school
building

B. upon request, the local fire department serving the area in which the
school district is located; and

Additionally, the Superintendent shall file a copy of the School Safety
Plan and a copy of each building floor plan with the Attorney General,
who will post the information on the Ohio Law Enforcement Gateway. If
the Board revises the School Safety Plan, building blueprint or building
floor plan, it shall file a copy of such revised document with the
above-referenced entities within ninety-one (91) days of the Board's
adoption of the revision.

Copies of the School Safety Plan and blueprints shall not be considered
public records, however, building floor plans are subject to public
disclosure.

The Board shall grant access to each school building to law enforcement
personnel in order to enable such personnel to conduct training sessions
for responding to threats and emergency events affecting the School
District and/or a school building. Such access shall be provided outside
of student instructional hours and an employee of the Board shall be
present in the building during the training sessions.

Prior to the opening day of each school year, the Superintendent shall
inform each enrolled student and the student's parent of the procedures
to be used to notify parents in the event of an emergency or a serious
threat to safety. Also, see Policy [**8420**](po8420.html) - Emergency
Situations at School.

### Safe and Drug Free Schools

As a part of the School Safety Plan, the Board shall verify that it has
procedures in place for keeping schools safe and drug-free that include
(see also, Form 8330 F15 entitled Checklist of Policies and Guidelines
Addressing No Child Left Behind Act of 2001):

A. appropriate and effective school discipline policies that prohibit
disorderly conduct, the illegal possession of weapons and the illegal
use, possession, distribution, and sale of tobacco, alcohol, and other
drugs by students;

B. security procedures at school and while students are on the way to
and from school;

C. prevention activities that are designed to maintain safe, disciplined
and drug-free environments;

D. a code of conduct or policy for all students that clearly states the
responsibilities of students, teachers, and administrators in
maintaining a classroom environment that:

​1. allows a teacher to communicate effectively to all students in the
class;

​2. allows all students in the class the opportunity to learn;

​3. has consequences that are fair, and developmentally appropriate;

​4. considers the student and the circumstances of the situation; and

​5. is enforced accordingly.

### Persistently Dangerous Schools

The Board recognizes that State and Federal law requires that the
District report annually incidents which meet the statutory definition
of violent criminal offenses that occur in a school, on school grounds,
on a school conveyance, or at a school-sponsored activity. It is further
understood that the State Department of Education will then use this
data to determine whether or not a school is considered "persistently
dangerous" as defined by State policy.

Pursuant to the Board's stated intent to provide a safe school
environment, the school administrators are expected to respond
appropriately to any and all violations of the Student Code of Conduct,
especially those of a serious, violent nature. In any year where the
number of reportable incidents of violent criminal offenses in any
school exceed the threshold number established in State policy, the
Superintendent shall convene a meeting of the building administrator,
representative(s) of the local law enforcement agencies, and any other
individuals deemed appropriate for the purpose of developing a plan of
corrective action that can be implemented in an effort to reduce the
number of these incidents in the subsequent year.

The Superintendent shall make a report to the Board about this plan of
corrective action and shall recommend approval and adoption of it.

In the unexpected event that the number of reportable incidents in three
(3) consecutive school years exceeds the statutory threshold and the
school is identified as persistently dangerous, students attending the
school shall have the choice option as provided in Policy 5113.02.

In addition, the Superintendent shall convene a meeting of the building
administrator, representative(s) of the local law enforcement agencies,
and any other individuals deemed appropriate for the purpose of
developing a plan of corrective action that can be implemented in an
effort to reduce the number of these incidents in the subsequent year.

### Victims of Violent Crime

The Board further recognizes that, despite the diligent efforts of
school administrators and staff to provide a safe school environment, an
individual student may be a victim of a violent crime in a school, on
school grounds, on a school conveyance, or at a school-sponsored
activity. In accordance with Federal and State law the parents of the
eligible student shall have the choice options provided by Policy
5113.02.

R.C. 3313.536\
 Title IX, Section 9532 of the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001\
 20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.\
 Public Law 107-110

Adopted 4/27/04\
 Revised 2/22/11
