---
layout: default
title: 8453 - CONTROL OF NONCASUAL-CONTACT COMMUNICABLE DISEASES
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education seeks to provide a safe educational environment
for both students and staff. It is the Board's intent to ensure that any
student or member of the staff who contracts a communicable disease that
is not communicated through casual contact will have his/her panel of
resource people and that the rights of both the affected individual and
those of other staff members and students will be acknowledged and
respected.

For purposes of this policy, "noncasual-contact communicable diseases"
shall include:

A. AIDS - Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome;

B. ARC - AIDS Related Complex;

C. persons infected with HTLV-III/LAV (Human T-Cell Lymphotropic
Virus/Lymphadenopathy Associated Virus);

D. Hepatitis B;

E. other like diseases that may be specified by the State Board of
Health.

In its effort to assist in the prevention and spread of communicable
diseases of any kind, the Board has established policies on
Immunization, Hygienic Management, and Control of Casual-Contact
Communicable Diseases. The purpose of this policy is to protect the
health and safety of the students, District personnel, and the community
at large from the spread of the above-mentioned diseases.

The Board seeks to keep students and staff members in school unless
there is definitive evidence to warrant exclusion. When the
Superintendent learns that a student or District employee may be
infected with a noncasual-contact communicable disease, the
Superintendent shall immediately convene a review panel consisting of
appropriate staff members, the infected person's physician, and the
Warren County Health Department to determine if the initial evidence
warrants exclusion.

If the evidence is not sufficient to justify exclusion, the person shall
remain in his/her current school environment unless there exists a
threat to the person's health or safety through exposure to other
communicable diseases.

If the County Health Officer determines the evidence indicates the
person should be excluded from the school environment, the person shall
be temporarily excluded following due-process procedures as described in
the District's administrative guidelines.

The District shall provide an alternative education program for any
student excluded from the school setting as a consequence of the review
panel's decision. Such a program shall be in accordance with the Board's
policy and administrative guidelines on Homebound Instruction.

When the Superintendent learns that a disabled student may be infected
with a noncasual-contact communicable diseases, the Placement Team will
serve as the District's representative on the communicable disease
review panel which will be convened within forty-eight (48) hours.

The rights of any affected student, as well as those of any affected
staff member, shall be protected in accordance with Federal and State
laws on privacy, confidentiality, and due-process. In addition, the
exclusion, of any staff member from the District by the County Health
Officer's decision will be done in accord with relevant sections of Ohio
Statutes concerning sick leave.

Further, it is the Board's policy that all students and staff members
should maintain normal contact with an affected student or staff member
whose continued presence in the school setting has been determined by
this process.

The Board directs the Superintendent to develop an educational program
in accordance with Ohio Statute that will ensure proper instruction of
students in grades K to 10, professional staff, and support staff on the
principle means by which noncasual-contact communicable diseases are
transmitted, as well as how they are not transmitted, and the more
effective methods for restricting and/or preventing these diseases.

The Superintendent shall include in this program those educational
material which advocate prevention through abstinence.

Revised 10/11/90\

