---
layout: default
title: 8462 - STUDENT ABUSE AND NEGLECT
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education is concerned with the physical and mental
well-being of the students of this District and will cooperate in the
identification and reporting of cases of child abuse **or neglect** in
accordance with law.

Every Board official and employee who, in connection with his/her
position, knows or suspects child abuse or neglect must immediately
report that knowledge or suspicion to a public children's services or
local law enforcement agency. Such reporting is required in every case
that reasonably indicates that a child under the age of eighteen (18) or
a physically or mentally disabled child under the age of twenty-one (21)
has been abused (physically or mentally)or neglected or faces the threat
of being abused or neglected. The Board official and employee making the
report shall also notify the appropriate administrator according to the
District's Reporting Procedure for Student Abuse or Neglect.

Each principal should be mindful of the possibility of physical or
mental abuse being inflicted on a student by an employee. Any such
instances, whether real or alleged, should be dealt with in accordance
with the administrative guidelines established by the Superintendent.
Board officials and employees must report suspected abuse to a public
children's services or local law enforcement agency even when the
suspected abuser is another official or employee.

The identity of the reporting person shall be confidential, subject only
to disclosure by consent or court order. Information concerning alleged
child abuse of a student is confidential information and is not to be
shared with any unauthorized person. A staff member who violates this
policy may be subject to disciplinary action and/or civil and/or
criminal penalties.

In accordance with law, the Board will provide appropriate instruction
on personal safety and assault prevention to all students in grades K-6.
In order to develop programs that are appropriate and effective, the
Superintendent is authorized to consult with public and/or private
agencies or individuals involved in child abuse prevention and
intervention. In addition, the Superintendent shall provide a program of
in-service education on school safety, prevention of child abuse,
violence and substance abuse and promotion of positive youth
development, including a review of Policy 5517.01 - Bullying and Other
Forms of Aggressive Behavior, for all nurses, teachers, counselors,
school psychologists and administrators who work in the District's
elementary, middle and high schools.

The in-service education provided to middle and high school employees
shall include training in the prevention of dating violence.

All newly-employed nurses, teachers, counselors, school psychologists
and administrators who work in the District's elementary, middle and
high schools shall complete at least four (4) hours of in-service
training within (2) years of the date of employment. Further, all middle
and high school nurses, teachers, counselors, school psychologists and
administrators employed by the District as of October 16, 2009, must
complete the initial four (4) hours of in-service training no later than
October 16, 2011. Additional training must occur every five (5) years
thereafter.

A law enforcement officer or children's services agency investigating
child abuse or neglect may interview a student on school grounds only in
accordance with Board Policy [**5540**](po5540.md).

R.C. 2151.421, 3313.60, 3319.073

Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 2/22/11\
 Revised 9/11/12
