---
layout: default
title: 8500 - FOOD SERVICES
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education shall provide cafeteria facilities in all school
facilities where space and facilities permit, and will provide food
service for the purchase and consumption of lunch for all students. The
Board shall annually encumber the funds needed to operate the program.

The food-service program shall comply with Federal and State regulations
pertaining to the selection, preparation, consumption, and disposal of
food and beverages as well as to the fiscal management of the program.

The Board shall approve and implement nutrition standards governing the
types of food and beverages that may be sold on the premises of its
schools and shall specify the time and place each type of food or
beverage may be sold. In adopting such standards, the Board shall:

A. consider the nutritional value of each food or beverage;

B. consult with a dietitian licensed under R.C. Chapter 4759, a dietetic
technician registered by the commission on dietetic registration, or a
school nutrition specialist certified or credentialed by the school
nutrition association; and

C. consult and incorporate to the maximum extent possible the dietary
guidelines for Americans jointly developed by the United States
Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the United States Department of
Health and Human Services.

No food or beverage may be sold on any school premises except in
accordance with the standards approved by the Board.

In addition, as required by law, a food safety program that is based on
the principles of the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP)
system shall be implemented with the intent of preventing food-borne
illnesses. For added safety and security, access to the facility and the
food stored and prepared therein shall be limited to food service
program staff and other authorized persons.

The Board shall provide a Federal food service program for students
during summer intervention programs that are mandated under Federal law.
If the Board determines that it is unable to provide a Federal food
service program during the summer, for financial reasons, the Board will
communicate that decision to its residents in a manner it determines to
be appropriate.

During all times while the food service program is operating and
students are being served food, at least one (1) employee shall be
present in the area in which the food is being consumed who has received
instruction in methods to prevent choking and demonstrated an ability to
perform the Heimlich maneuver.

Lunches sold by the school may be purchased by students and staff
members and community residents in accordance with administrative
guidelines established by the Superintendent. Lunches may be made
available, free of charge, to senior citizens who are serving as
volunteers to the District.

The operation and supervision of the food-service program shall be the
responsibility of the Superintendent or his/her designee. In accordance
with Federal law, The Superintendent or his/her designee shall take such
actions as are necessary to obtain a minimum of two (2) food safety
inspections per school year, which are conducted by the State or local
governmental agency responsible for food safety inspections. The report
of the most recent inspection will be posted in a publicly visible
location, and a copy of the report will be available upon request.

A periodic review of the food-service accounts shall be made. Any
surplus funds from the National School Lunch Program shall be used to
reduce the cost of the service to students or to purchase cafeteria
equipment. Surplus funds from a-la-carte foods may accrue to the
food-service program.

In accordance with the nutritional standards adopted by the Board, the
placement of vending machines in any classroom where students are
provided instruction, unless the classroom is also used to serve meals
to students, is prohibited.

No foods or beverages, other than those associated with the District's
food-service program, are to be sold during food-service hours. The
District shall serve only nutritious food in accordance with the
nutritional standards adopted by the Board. Foods and beverages in
competition with the District's food-service program may only be sold in
accordance with Board Policy [**8550**](po8550.md).

The Superintendent is responsible for implementing the food service
program in accordance with the adopted nutrition standards and shall
provide a report regarding the District's compliance with the standards
at one of its regular meetings annually.

R.C. 3313.81, 3313.811-815\
 A.C. 3301-91\
 7 C.F.R. 210, 215, 220 42 U.S.C. 1758

Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 8/10/93\
 Revised 3/25/03\
 Revised 7/25/06\
 Revised 6/28/11
