---
layout: default
title: 8660 - TRANSPORTATION BY PRIVATE VEHICLE
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education authorizes the transportation of students by
private vehicle between the school and a school-sponsored activity.

Any such transportation must be approved in advance and in writing by
the Superintendent. The writing must set forth:

A. the date, time, and reason for the transportation;

B. the places from and to which students will be transported; the name
and address of the driver;

C. the number of the driver's license to operate a motor vehicle in the
State of Ohio;

D. the names of the students to be transported;

E. a brief description of the transportation vehicle;

F. and the signature of the driver.

The parent of the participating student will be given, on request, the
name of the driver and the description of the vehicle.

No person shall be approved for the transportation of students in a
private vehicle who is not an employee of this Board or the parent of a
student enrolled in this District, and the holder of a currently valid
license to operate a motor vehicle in the State of Ohio.

No person shall be permitted to transport students who is not the holder
of automobile liability insurance and personal injury insurance to the
limit prescribed by District rules. The Board may withdraw the
authorization of any private vehicle driver.

Any private vehicle used for the transportation of students must be
owned by the approved driver or the spouse of the approved driver; have
the capacity to hold not more than ten (10) persons including the
driver; and must conform to registration requirements of the State.

The responsibility of teaching staff members for the discipline and
control of students will extend to their transportation of students in a
private vehicle. Drivers who are not teaching staff members are
requested to report student misconduct to the building principal.

Expenses incurred by drivers of private vehicles in the course of
transporting students will be reimbursed by the Board at the approved
mileage rate and upon presentation of evidence of costs for tolls and
parking fees.

Students participating in such transportation by private vehicle shall
sign a "hold harmless" waiver prior to the event.

Parents of student riders shall agree prior to the event to indemnify
and hold harmless the Board and its agents and employees from all
liability, claims, demands, damages, or costs for or arising out of the
use of a private vehicle to transport students.

Revised 10/11/90
