---
layout: default
title: 8600.04 - BUS DRIVER CERTIFICATION
---

{{ page.title }}
================

It is the policy of the Board of Education that all bus drivers obtain
and hold proper certification under standards for school bus drivers
established within the Ohio Revised Code. It is also the purpose of this
Board to protect its students from drivers whose certification is
invalidated by the Ohio Point Law or point standards of this District.\

A copy of each new school bus driver's complete driving record must be
obtained from the Ohio Department of Education prior to allowing the
school bus driver to operate a school bus or school van for the first
time. In accordance with State transportation regulations, the
Superintendent shall request the administrator in charge of
transportation to conduct at least a semi-annual review of each school
bus driver's (i.e., current bus drivers and those newly hired bus
drivers who remain employed with the Board) driving record through the
Ohio Department of Education) to determine that such drivers have:

A. no more than six (6) points within the last twenty-four (24) month
period;

B. not been convicted of driving while under the influence of alcohol
and/or a controlled substance during the past six (6) years (i.e., not
been convicted of a violation of R.C. 4511.19);

C. not received two (2) (or more) of the following serious traffic
violations as defined in R.C. 4506.01(DD)(1) through (DD)(7) during the
last twenty-four (24) month period:

​1. a single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit by
fifteen (15) miles per hour or more;

​2. violation of R.C. 4511.20 (i.e., operation in willful or wanton
disregard of the safety of persons or property) or R.C. 4511.201 (i.e.,
operation off street or highway in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property) or any similar ordinance or resolution,
or of any similar law of another state or political subdivision of
another state;

​3. violation of a law of this State or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, or of any
similar law of another state or political subdivision of another state,
that results in a fatal accident;

​4. violation of R.C. 4506.03 (i.e., commercial driver's license or
temporary instruction requirements) or a substantially similar municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any similar law of
another state or political subdivision of another state, that involves
the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver's license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific
vehicle group being operated for the passengers or type of cargo being
transported;

​5. violation of R.C. 4506.03 (i.e., commercial driver's license or
temporary instruction requirements) or a substantially similar municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any similar law of
another state or political subdivision of another state, that involves
the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver's license being in the person's possession;

​6. violation of R.C. 4511.33 (i.e., driving in marked lanes) or R.C.
4511.34 (i.e., space between moving vehicles) or any municipal ordinance
or county or township resolution substantially similar to either of
those sections, or any substantially similar law of another state or
political subdivision of another state;

​7. violation of any other law of this State or ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, that is
determined to be a serious traffic violation by the United States
Secretary of Transportation and the Director designates such by rule;
and

D. no railroad crossing violations during the last year (i.e., twelve
(12) month period);

E. not received any violations that render the bus driver uninsurable by
the District's Fleet Insurance Carrier.

The records obtained from the annual records check will be maintained
for a minimum of six (6) years.

A driver having any of the above-referenced violations will be
disqualified from operating a bus. The driver will also be notified that
his/her school bus certification will be reviewed by the Superintendent
and his/her employment as a school bus driver may be terminated.

A driver involved in a preventable school bus accident, or judged guilty
of a minor traffic violation, shall be subject to the disciplinary
action established in the Superintendent's administrative guidelines.
Further, no driver who is convicted of a traffic violation or has
his/her commercial driver's license (CDL) suspended will be permitted to
operate a school bus or school van until the driver files a written
notice of the conviction or suspension. Such written notice must be
immediately filed with the Superintendent or administrator in charge of
transportation, irrespective of whether the traffic violation occurred
while operating a Board-owned vehicle or a private vehicle or during
school or non-school hours. Failure to file the required written notice
of conviction or suspension will result in the revocation of the
driver's certificate and/or disciplinary action, up to and including
termination.

If a school bus driver has an interruption in driving a school bus or
school van for a period of one (1) year or longer, s/he will not be
permitted to resume operating a school bus or school van until a copy of
the school bus driver's complete driving record has been obtained.

In addition to the required driving record check, the administrator in
charge of transportation shall obtain a satisfactory BCII report prior
to hiring an individual as a new school bus or school van driver, along
with an FBI background check (i.e., an FBI background check will also be
required prior to hiring new employees). An updated, satisfactory BCII
report shall be obtained for each school bus driver every six (6) years
with driver re-certification. Satisfactory shall be defined by the same
standards applied to other public school employees. Such records shall
also be maintained for a minimum of six (6) years (see Policy
[**4121**](po4121.md) for criminal history record check requirements).

No bus driver will be permitted to drive a school bus or school van
unless s/he meets all other requirements contained in the rules adopted
by the Ohio Department of Education prescribing qualifications of
drivers of school buses and other student transportation. In addition,
no bus driver will be permitted to drive a school bus or school van
unless:

A. information pertaining to the bus driver has been submitted to the
Ohio Department of Education, including the name of the Board, name of
the bus driver, driver license number, date of birth, date of hire,
status of physical evaluation and status of training; and

B. a criminal records check, including information from the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, has been completed and received by the
Superintendent.

R.C. 3327.10, 3327.01 et seq., 4511.01(F), 4511.75 et seq.\
 A.C. 3301-51-10, 3301-83-01 et seq., 3301-83-05, 3301-83-06\
 A.C. 3301-83-07

Revised 4/22/08
