---
layout: default
title: 8640 - TRANSPORTATION FOR FIELD AND OTHERDISTRICT-SPONSORED TRIPS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

It shall be the policy of the School Board to use regular or
special-purpose school vehicles for transportation on field and other
District-sponsored trips.

The transportation for all trips is to be by vehicles owned by the
District and driven by approved drivers. Expectations must have the
approval of the Board.

Members of the staff or of the sponsoring organization shall be
responsible for providing supervision on trips. At least one (1)
sponsor, chaperone, or staff member is expected to ride in each vehicle
whenever students ride as well as to supervise students upon return to
school and while they are waiting for rides home.

All students are expected to ride the school vehicle to and from each
activity. A special request must be made to the staff member or sponsor
by the parent or in person to allow an exception.

No student is allowed to drive on any trip. An exception may be made by
the principal on an individual basis provided the student has parental
permission in writing and does not transport any other student.

When a school sponsors an extra-curricular activity such as a
recreational event, it will provide for the transportation. The District
will only assume responsibility for those students using the provided
transportation.

Because of the potential liability, the District will not allow a
student to participate in such an activity if transportation is not
arranged for by the District.

The Superintendent shall prepare administrative guidelines to ensure
that all transportation is in compliance with Board policy on use of
District vehicles or use of private vehicles as prescribed by Policy
[**8660**](po8660.md).

Revised 10/11/90\

