---
layout: default
title: 8630 - STUDENT TRANSPORTATION SAFETY AND WELFARE
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education requires that student safety and welfare be
ensured during the time students are being bused to school. The Board
holds that busing is a privilege, not a right, which may be denied any
student who violates the rules of the District, or who conducts
himself/herself in a manner which is considered dangerous to persons or
property or a threat to the safe operation of the school bus.

The school bus driver shall be responsible for maintaining order and
discipline of students while they are being transported to or from
school. When a problem in student conduct requires discipline, the
driver shall report it in writing to the building principal. A student
may be suspended from bus transportation by the principal for
disciplinary reasons in which case the parents are responsible for the
student's transportation.

Students suspended from bus transportation shall be given written notice
of their suspension and the reasons therefor, and an opportunity to
appear at an informal hearing to answer the charges against them.
Students whose conduct on the bus is so grievous as to consider
expulsion from bus transportation shall be provided with the hearing
privileges indicated in the student code of conduct.

Students whose conduct on the bus is an immediate danger to persons or
property or a threat to the safe operation of the school bus may be
immediately removed from the vehicle and shall be given notice as soon
as practicable of a hearing which must be held within seventy-two (72)
hours of the removal.

The Superintendent or designee shall:

A. prepare student school bus management regulations which shall include
as a minimum the rules specified in A.C. 3301-83-08(C) and A.C.
3301-83-20;

B. prepare a course of safety instruction for students in grades
kindergarten through third who are regularly transported to school in
accordance with A.C. 3301-83-09;

C. maintain records for the management and reporting of the student
transportation program in accordance with A.C. 3301-83-14;

D. prepare a pre-emergency plan for routine and nonroutine operation in
cooperation with all persons whose services would be required in the
event of an emergency in accordance with A.C. 3301-83-15.

R.C. 3313.66, 3327.01, 4511.75, 4511.76\
 A.C. 3301-83-08, 3301-83-09, 3301-83-14, 3301-83-15, 3301-83-20

Revised 8/24/04
