---
layout: default
title: 8800 - RELIGIOUS/PATRIOTIC CEREMONIES AND OBSERVANCES
---

{{ page.title }}
================

Decisions of the United States Supreme Court have made it clear that it
is not the province of a public school to advance or inhibit religious
beliefs or practices. Under the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the
Constitution, this remains the inviolate province of the individual and
the church of his/her choice. The rights of any minority, no matter how
small, must be protected. No matter how well intended, either official
or unofficial sponsorship of religiously-oriented activities by the
school are offensive to some and tend to supplant activities which
should be the exclusive province of individual religious groups,
churches, private organizations, or the family.

District staff members shall not use prayer, religious readings, or
religious symbols as a devotional exercise or in an act of worship or
celebration. The District shall not act as a disseminating agent for any
person or outside agency for any religious or anti-religious document,
book, or article. Distribution of such materials on District property by
any party shall be in accordance with Policy [**7510**](po7510.html) -
Use of District Facilities and Policy [**9700**](po9700.html) - Relations
with Special Interest Groups.

Observance of religious holidays through devotional exercises or acts of
worship will not be authorized in instructional and District-sponsored
activities. Acknowledgement of, explanation of, and teaching about
religious holidays of various religions is encouraged. Celebration
activities involving religious decorations and/or works are permitted,
but it is the responsibility of all faculty members to ensure that such
activities are strictly voluntary, do no place an atmosphere of social
compulsion or ostracism on minority groups or individuals, and do not
interfere with the regular school program.

The Board shall not conduct or sanction a baccalaureate service in
conjunction with graduation ceremonies.

The Board shall not authorize religious invocations, benedictions, or
formal prayer at any school-sponsored event.

The flag of the Unites States shall be raised above each school and/or
at other appropriate places during all school sessions, weather
permitting. The flag shall be raised before the opening of school and
taken down at its close every day. Flag etiquette allows for twenty-four
(24) hour illumination.

The Board requires that an observance be scheduled each year on or about
Veterans Day.

Professional staff members are authorized to lead students in the Pledge
of Allegiance at an appropriate time each school day. However, no
student shall be compelled to participate in the reciting of the Pledge.
The Superintendent shall ensure that any staff member who conducts this
activity does it at an appropriate time, in an appropriate manner, and
with due regard to the need to protect the rights and the privacy of a
nonparticipating student. Wording of the Pledge of Allegiance as set
forth in the United States Code shall not be altered.

R.C. 3313.601, 3313.602, 3313.76, 3313.77, 3313.801, 3314.03(A)(11)(h)\
 20 U.S.C. 4071 et seq.\
 Gregoire vs. Centennial School District, 907 F.2d 1366, (3rd Cir.
1990)\
 Lee vs. Weisman, 505 U.S. 577 (1992)

Adopted 8/10/93\
 Revised 3/28/01\
 Revised 7/23/03\
 Revised 11/16/04\
 Revised 2/22/11
