---
layout: default
title: 9121 - TAPING OF BOARD MEETINGS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

Audio and video recording devices may be used at regular and special
Board of Education meetings legally open to the public according to the
following guidelines:

### Independent Recording

A. Tape recording of Board meetings, by individuals other than those
designated/authorized by the Board, is permitted; however, any
individual(s) desiring to do so must advise the Board and all persons
present at the meeting that such recording is being made.

B. Persons operating recording devices must do so with a minimum of
disruption to the Board proceedings and a minimum of interference to
those present at the meeting. Specifically, a view between Board members
and the audience must not be obstructed, interviews shall not be
conducted during the meeting, and no commentary is to be given in a
manner that is audible to those in attendance or conducting the meeting
and thereby distracts Board members or the audience.

C. The Board has the right to prohibit any individual from taping who
violates the restrictions contained in item number 2 above.

D. Individuals who make audio/video tape recordings of Board public
meetings, except individuals designated/authorized by the Board to do so
on behalf of the Board, are responsible for securing whatever
permissions, releases, etc., may be necessary, if any, for broadcasting,
or otherwise using any such recorded materials. It is understood that
any permission the Board has secured to use any copyrighted or licensed
material for Board purposes does not provide individuals not in the
employ of the Board with the right to use, broadcast, or otherwise
disseminate such materials. Accordingly, such individuals shall assume
any liability for broadcasting or disseminating any such materials
without first securing any individual releases, copyright releases
required, if any, and further assumes all liability arising out of the
broadcasting or disseminating of such materials and the nature of the
content of the recordings.

Adopted 3/26/96\
 Revised 10/28/03\
 Revised 4/12/11
