---
layout: default
title: 9150 - SCHOOL VISITORS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education welcomes and encourages visits to school by
parents, other adult residents of the community, and interested
educators. But in order for the educational program to continue
undisturbed when visitors are present and to prevent the intrusion of
disruptive persons into the schools, it is necessary to invoke visitor
controls.

The Superintendent or building principal has the authority to prohibit
the entry of any person to a school of this District or to expel any
person when there is reason to believe the presence of such person would
be detrimental to the good order of the school. If such an individual
refuses to leave the school grounds or creates a disturbance, any school
official is authorized to request from the local law enforcement agency
whatever assistance is required to remove the individual.

The Superintendent shall promulgate such administrative guidelines as
are necessary for the protection of students and employees of the
District from disruption to the educational program or the efficient
conduct of their assigned tasks.

Rules regarding entry of persons other than students, staff, and faculty
upon school grounds or premises shall be posted conspicuously at or near
the entrance to such grounds or premises if there are no formal
entrances, and at the main entrance to each school building. In
addition, the rules shall be posted in a central location in each school
and made available to students upon request.

Individual Board members who are interested in visiting schools or
classrooms on an unofficial basis shall make the appropriate
arrangements with the principal. In keeping with Board bylaws, such
Board member visits shall not be considered to be official unless
designated as such by the Board.

The Board member shall be visiting as an interested individual in a
similar capacity to any parent or citizen of the community. These visits
should not be considered to be inspections nor as supervisory in nature.

If, during a visit to a school or program, a Board member observes a
situation or condition which causes concern, s/he should discuss the
situation first with the Superintendent as soon as convenient or
appropriate. Such a report or discussion shall not be considered an
official one from the School Board.

If the Board member believes the situation or condition serious enough,
s/he may wish to also inform the Superintendent.

R.C. 3313.20\
 R.C. 2911.21

Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 8/10/93\
 Revised 11/18/03\
 Revised 6/28/11
