9130 - PUBLIC COMPLAINTS
========================

Any person or group having a legitimate interest in the schools of this
District shall have the right to present a request, suggestion, or
complaint concerning District personnel, the program, or the operations
of the District. At the same time, the Board of Education has a duty to
protect its staff from unnecessary harassment. It is the intent of this
policy to provide the means for judging each public complaint in a fair
and impartial manner and to seek a remedy where appropriate. This
procedure supplements those established in the collective bargaining
agreements in effect.

It is the desire of the Board to rectify any misunderstandings between
the public and the School District by direct discussions of an informal
type among the interested parties. It is only when such informal
meetings fail to resolve the differences, shall more formal procedures
be employed.

Any requests, suggestions, or complaints reaching the Board, Board
members, and the administration shall be referred to the Superintendent
for consideration according to the following procedure or according to
approved collective bargaining agreements in effect.

A. First Level\

If it is a matter specifically directed toward a professional staff
member, the matter must be addressed, initially, to the concerned staff
member who shall discuss it promptly with the complainant and make every
effort to provide a reasoned explanation or take appropriate action
within his/her authority and District administrative guidelines.\

The staff member or complainant may request that the administrator or
supervisor be present during the discussion, if necessary. If the
concern is not resolved after discussion with the staff member, and the
administrator/supervisor has not been involved in the discussion, the
complainant may then request a conference with him/her. The
administrator/supervisor shall make every effort to resolve the
complaint at that level within his/her authority and District
administrative guidelines.\

This level does not apply if the matter involves suspected child abuse,
substance abuse, or any other serious allegation which may require
investigation or inquiry by school officials prior to approaching the
professional staff member.

B. Second Level\

If a satisfactory solution is not achieved by discussion with the
administrator, a written request for a conference shall be submitted to
the Superintendent by the complainant with a copy to the Board in
compliance with provisions of the collective bargaining agreement if
effect for the employee. This request should include:

​1. the specific nature of the complaint and a brief statement of the
facts giving rise to it;

​2. the respect in which it is alleged that the complainant (or child of
the complainant) has been affected adversely.

C. Third Level\

Should the matter still not be resolved, or if it is one beyond the
Superintendent's authority and requires a Board decision or action, the
complainant shall request in writing, a meeting by the Board.\

The Board may grant a meeting.\

The complainant shall be advised of the Board's decision in a timely
manner.

### Matters Regarding a Program or Operation

If the request, suggestion, or complaint relates to a matter of District
or school policy, procedure, program, or operation, it should be
addressed, initially, to the building principal or the head of the
department who is most directly concerned, and then brought, in turn, to
higher levels of authority.

### Matters Regarding Instructional Materials

If the request, suggestion, or complaint relates to instructional
materials such as textbooks, library books, reference works, and other
instructional aids used in the District, the following procedures shall
be followed:

A. The criticism is to be addressed to the Superintendent in writing,
and shall include:

​1. author;

​2. title;

​3. publisher;

​4. the complainant's familiarity with the material objected to;

​5. sections objected to, by page and item;

​6. reasons for objection;

​7. in what school and class the material was used;

​8. how the material was used.

B. Upon receipt of the information, the Superintendent shall, after
advising the Board of the complaint, appoint an advisory committee
consisting of: Director of Instruction, principal, parent, student,
librarian, and the teacher of the subject.

C. The Superintendent shall be a member ex officio of the committee.

D. The committee, in evaluating the questioned material, shall be guided
by the following criteria:

​1. the appropriateness of the material for the age and maturity level
of the students with whom it is being used

​2. the accuracy of the materials

​3. the objectivity of the material

​4. the use being made of the material

E. The committee's recommendation shall be reported to the
Superintendent in writing within ten (10) business days following the
completion of the committee work. The Superintendent will advise the
complainant in writing of the committee's recommendation, and advise the
Board of the action taken or recommended.

F. The complainant may appeal this decision to the Board through a
written request to the Superintendent, who shall forward the request and
all written material relating to the matter to the Board.

G. The Board shall review the case and advise the complainant in a
timely manner.

No challenged material may be removed from the curriculum or from a
collection of resource materials except by action of the Board, and no
challenged material may be removed solely because it presents ideas that
may be unpopular or offensive to some. Any Board action to remove
material will be accompanied by the Board's statement of its reasons for
the removal.

Revised 3/18/88\
 Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 10/28/03
