---
layout: default
title: 9160 - PUBLIC ATTENDANCE AT SCHOOL EVENTS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education welcomes and encourages members of the community
to attend athletic and other public events held by the schools in the
District. Due to the need to maintain order and preserve the facilities
of the District during the conduct of such events, the Board retains the
right to bar the attendance of or remove any person whose conduct may
constitute a disruption at a school event. School administrators are
expected to call law enforcement officials if a person violates posted
regulations or does not leave school property when reasonably requested.
In accordance with Board Policy [**7440**](po7440.html) and AG 7440B,
administrators may use metal detectors and other devices to protect the
safety and well-being of participants and visitors.

No alcoholic beverage or other controlled substance may be possessed,
consumed, or distributed at any function occurring on Board property.

Raffles and similar forms of fund-raising by District-related
organizations may be permitted by the Superintendent in accordance with
Policy 9211 - District Support Organizations and Policy
[**9700**](po9700.html) - Relations with Special Interest Groups.

If a student or adult is asked to leave or is removed from a school
event, no admission fees shall be refunded.

Individuals with disabilities shall have an equal opportunity to
purchase tickets for events that have been sanctioned or approve by the
Board in accordance with the provisions of the Americans with
Disabilities Act, as amended.

Service dogs used by persons with disabilities are permitted in all
District facilities and at all school events.

Smoking and/or the use of tobacco and/or tobacco substitute products is
prohibited at any time within any enclosed facility owned or leased or
contracted for by the Board, and in areas directly or indirectly under
the control of the Board immediately adjacent to locations of ingress or
egress to such facilities. Such prohibition also applies to and/or any
school-related event.

The Board is aware of the increasing desire of many parents and other
members of an audience to use "camcorders" and other audio/visual
devices at school events.

Such recordings can be made by parents or other members of the audience
without restriction if the performance is not of copyrighted material.
However, if the performance is of copyrighted material, recording can be
made if the appropriate license authorizing such recordings has been
secured in advance by the District. If the performance is of copyrighted
material and the necessary license has not been secured in advance by
the District, the audience shall be advised before the performance
begins that audio and/or video recordings that will be re-broadcast or
distributed in any way, such as posting on the internet, are prohibited.

The Board authorizes the Superintendent to establish rules and
procedures governing the use of nondistrict audio/visual recording
equipment at any District-sponsored event or activity. Such rules are to
be distributed in such a manner that members of the audience who wish to
record the event are aware of the rules early enough to make proper
arrangements to obtain their recordings without causing delay or
disruption to an activity.

Any person or organization seeking to film students or a school activity
which is not a public event, must obtain prior permission from the
Superintendent.

All notices, signs, schedules, and other communications about school
events must contain the following statement:

"In accordance with State and Federal law, the District will provide
reasonable accommodations to persons with disabilities who wish to
attend and/or participate in school events. Such individuals should
notify the Superintendent if they require a reasonable accommodation."

R.C. 955.43, 1716.02, 1716.03\
 28 C.F.R. Part 35

Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 8/10/93\
 Revised 12/21/99\
 Revised 11/18/03\
 Revised 1/25/05\
 Revised 6/28/11
