---
layout: default
title: 9250 - RELATIONS WITH PARENTS
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education believes that the education of children is a
joint responsibility, one it shares with the parents of the school
community. To ensure that the best interests of the child are served in
this process, a strong program of communication between home and school
must be maintained.

The Board feels that it is the parents who the ultimate responsibility
for their children's in-school behavior, including the behavior of
students who have reached the legal age of majority, but are still for
all practical purposes, under parental authority. During school hours,
the Board, through its designated administrators, acts in place of the
parents.

The Board directs that the following activities be implemented to
encourage parent-school cooperation through:

A. parent-teacher conferences to permit two-way communication between
home and school

B. open houses in District schools to provide parents with the
opportunity to see the school facilities, meet the faculty, and sample
the program on a first hand basis; each school in the District shall
hold an open house at least annually

C. meetings of parents and staff members to explain and discuss matters
of general interest with regard to child-school, child-home, or
child-school-home relationships

D. meetings of staff members and groups of parents of those students
having special abilities, disabilities, needs or problems

E. special events of a cultural, ethnic, or topical nature, which are
initiated by parent groups, involve the cooperative effort of students
and parents, and are of general interest to the schools or community

F. other activities established by District personnel to encourage
parental participation in the schools

M.C.L.A. 380.10, 380.1137

Adopted 11/18/03
