---
layout: default
title: 9270 - HOME EDUCATION
---

{{ page.title }}
================

The Board of Education requires that all resident students of compulsory
schooling age attend a chartered public or nonpublic school as required
by the Ohio Revised Code. If a parent desires an exception in order to
provide home instruction for a resident student of compulsory age, the
parent must comply with the requirements of the Ohio Revised Code and
the related administrative guidelines promulgated by the Ohio Department
of Education. These requirements must be met annually prior to a
student's participation in home education.

The Board shall not allow a student who attends a nondistrict school to
participate in any of the District's co-curricular or extra-curricular
activities. The Board shall allow a student who has been excused from
attendance for home education to participate in any of the District's
co-curricular or extra-curricular activities, provided that the
following standards have been met:

A. The student must be enrolled for two (2) periods per day in two (2)
year-long courses or the equivalent semester/quarter courses.

B. Enrollment must be continuous throughout the school year. Failure to
fulfill this requirement will jeopardize future participation in extra
or co-curricular activities.

C. The student must meet and document all the eligibility requirements
of the Springboro Community School District and the OHSAA throughout the
school year to maintain eligibility. For additional information, contact
the Springboro Community School District Athletic Director.

D. The student must have been home-educated for an entire school year
prior to being granted eligibility and have met and can document the
achievement of the minimum credit and GPA requirements of the Springboro
Community School District and OHSAA.

Although students choosing home education are not the direct
responsibility of the Springboro Community Schools, the Board and staff
share an interest in their education. Therefore, the Springboro
Community School District will permit students receiving home education
access to the following services from the District:

**A. Elementary Level, Grades K-5**

Enrollment for the entire school year, up to a maximum of two (2)
special subject areas of art, music, and physical education.

**B. Secondary Level, Grades 6-12**

Enrollment for the entire school year, up to a maximum of two (2)
year-long courses or semester/quarter equivalent courses for no more
than two (2) periods per day.

Enrollment procedures for home educated students are as follows:

A. Requests for enrollment must be made by a parent/guardian and
submitted to the Superintendent, or Superintendent's designee, at the
time of notification of home education prior to the intended school year
of enrollment. Proof of residency must accompany the request.

B. Students enrolling must be residents of the District and follow
regular school enrollment requirements and will be assigned on a space
available basis. Upon excusal from attendance of the Superintendent,
home educated students who transfer into the District during the school
year may enroll in special subjects or academic courses as permitted in
this policy.

C. Students enrolling must comply with and will be held accountable to
the District student Code of Conduct.

D. Students enrolling are expected to complete all course work normally
required and will be graded similarly for the courses or subjects
enrolled.

E. A student's grade point average will be established for award and
class rank purposes only after the student has enrolled full-time and
attended school full-time in the District for three (3) consecutive
semesters. Home educated instruction shall not be included in the
calculation of a student's grade point average.

F. Transportation to and from class is the responsibility of the
parent/guardian.

G. Once approved, the student must be enrolled continuously throughout
the school year.

H. The final decision regarding admission and placement for all home
educated students enrolled in the District rests with the
Superintendent.

I. The Superintendent shall have the right to evaluate a home educated
student's achievement and place the student in the appropriate grade
level, should the student be re-enrolled in Springboro Community
Schools.

Home educated-students will be permitted to take norm-referenced
achievement/ability and state-mandated tests that are regularly
scheduled for district students of similar age. Students in grades 6-12
will be required to take state mandated proficiency tests if they are
enrolled in reading, English, mathematics, science, and/or social
studies courses. These tests are given at selected grade levels and must
be taken during the regular administration of the tests. It is the
responsibility of the parent/guardian to make arrangements for testing
with the appropriate school. Springboro Community Schools will not pay
for testing outside the school district. A student may take tests such
as the PSAT, SAT, ACT, etc. normally given at school. These tests will
be administered at the same cost charged Springboro High School
students.

This policy shall have no bearing on the full-time enrollment of
students as required by Board of Education Policy [**5200 -
Attendance.**](po5200.html)

R.C. 3321.03, 3321.04   
A.C. 3301-34

Revised 10/11/90
Revised 8/10/93   
Revised 1/25/00   
Revised 9/24/02    
Revised 11/18/03   
Revised 6/22/04   
