9600 - VOLUNTEERISM
===================

The Board of Education recognizes that certain programs and activities
can be enhanced through the use of volunteers who have particular
knowledge or skills that will be helpful to members of the classified
staff responsible for the conduct of those programs and activities.

The Superintendent shall be responsible for recruiting community
volunteers, reviewing their capabilities, and making appropriate
placements. S/he shall not be obligated to make use of volunteers whose
abilities are not in accord with District needs.

The Superintendent is to inform each volunteer that s/he:

A. is required to abide by all Board policies and District guidelines
while on duty as a volunteer;

B. will be covered under the District's liability policy but the
District cannot provide any type of health insurance to cover illness or
accident incurred while serving as a volunteer, nor is the person
eligible for workers' compensation;

C. will be asked to sign a form releasing the District of any obligation
should the volunteer become ill or receive an injury as a result of
his/her volunteer services.

Furthermore, the Superintendent shall inform all volunteers who work or
apply to work unsupervised with children on a regular basis of the need
to display appropriate behavior at all times, and that they may be
required to provide a set of fingerprints at any time so that a criminal
records check can be conducted. If a criminal records check is then
conducted, it will be done as a condition of continued service as a
volunteer and will be at the Board's expense.

If a criminal records check indicates that a volunteer has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to any of the offenses described in R.C.
109.572(A)(1), the volunteer will be informed either that the Board is
no longer interested in maintaining their volunteer service or that the
volunteer will be assigned to duties for which s/he will not work
unsupervised with children.

The Superintendent shall inform each volunteer of the District's
appreciation for his/her time and efforts in assisting in the operation
of the schools and for his/her understanding with regard to the need for
all volunteers to be subject to possible criminal records check.

R.C. 109.574-7, 121.402-1, 3327.16, 3313.203

Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 12/18/01
