<!-- Mirrored from www.neola.com/springboro-oh/search/policies/po0100.htm by HTTrack Website Copier/3.x [XR&CO'2013][, Sun, 09 Jun 2013 18:21:06 GMT -->
#0100 - DEFINITIONS
Whenever the following items are used in these bylaws and policies, they shall have the meaning set forth below:   
**Administrative Guideline**  
A statement, based on policy, usually written, which outlines and/or describes the means by which a policy should be implemented and which provides for the management cycle of planning, action, and assessment or evaluation.   
**Agreement**  
A collectively negotiated contract with a recognized bargaining unit.   
**Board**  
The Board of Education.   
**Bylaw**  
Rule of the Board for its own governance.   
**Classified Employee**  
An employee who provides support to the District's program and whose position does not require a professional license.   
**Compulsory School Age**  
A child between six and eighteen years of age or a child under six years of age who has been enrolled in kindergarten unless at any time the child’s parent or guardian, at the parent’s or guardian’s discretion and in consultation with the child’s teacher and principal, formally withdraws the child from kindergarten.   
**District**  
The School District.   
**Due Process**  
The safeguards to which a person is entitled in order to protect his/her rights.   
**Full Board**  
Authorized number of voting members entitled to govern the District.   
**May**  
This word is used when an action by the Board or its designee is permitted but not required.   
**Meeting**  
Any gathering which is attended by or open to all of the members of the Board, held with the intent on the part of the members of the body present to discuss or act as a unit upon the specific public business of that body.   
**Parent**  
The natural, adoptive, or surrogate parents or the party designated by the courts as the legal guardian or custodian of a student. Both parents will be considered to have equal rights unless a court of law decrees otherwise. When a student is the subject of a power of attorney or caretaker authorization affidavit executed by the student’s grandparent(s), the term parents shall also refer to the grandparent designated as the attorney-in-fact under the power of attorney or the grandparent who executed the affidavit.   
Although the grandparent shall have rights and responsibilities with regard to the care, physical custody, and control of the student, including the ability to enroll the student in school, to obtain from the District educational or behavioral information about the student, consent to all school related matters, and consent to medical, psychological, or dental treatment for the student, the power of attorney does not convey legal custody of the grandchild to the grandparent and does not affect the rights of the parent, guardian, or custodian of the student in any future proceeding concerning the custody of the student or allocation of parental rights and responsibilities for the care of the student.   
Likewise, although the grandparent shall have rights and responsibilities with regard to the care, physical custody, and control of the student, including the ability to enroll the student in school, to discuss with the District the student’s educational progress, consent to all school related matters, and consent to medical, psychological, or dental treatment for the student, the caretaker authorization affidavit does not convey legal custody of the grandchild to the grandparent and does not affect the rights of the student’s parents, guardian or custodian regarding the care, physical custody, and control of the child.   
R.C. 3313.64, 3109.52, 3109.65   
**Policy**  
A general, written statement by the governing board which defines its expectations or position on a particular matter and authorizes appropriate action that must or may be taken to establish and/or maintain those expectations.   
**President**  
The chief executive officer of the Board. (See Bylaw 0170)   
**Principal**  
The educational leader and head administrator of one (1) or more District schools. In policy and administrative guidelines, implies delegation of designated responsibilities to appropriate members of his/her staff.   
**Professional Staff Member**  
An employee who implements or supervises one (1) or more aspects of the District's program and whose position requires a professional credential from the Division of Teacher Education and Licensing.   
**Relative**  
The mother, father, sister, brother, spouse, parent of spouse, child, grandparents, grandchild, or dependent in the immediate household as defined in the negotiated, collectively-bargained agreement.   
**Secretary**  
The chief clerk of the Board of Education.   
**Shall**  
This word is used when an action by the Board or its designee is required. (The word "will" or "must" signifies a required action.)   
**Student**  
A person who is officially enrolled in a school or program of the District.   
**Superintendent**  
The chief executive officer of the School District. In policy, implies delegation of responsibilities to appropriate staff members.   
**Textbook**  
This word is used to describe the learning material duly adopted and required as standard work for the study of a particular subject. It may be bound and printed with a hard or soft cover, or it may be electronic, e.g., computer software, interactive videodisc, magnetic media, CD ROM, computer courseware, on-line service, electronic medium, or other means of conveying information.   
**Treasurer**  
The chief fiscal officer of the District.   
**Vice-President**  
The Vice-President of the Board of Education. (See Bylaw 0170)   
**Voting**  
A vote at a meeting of the Board of Education. The law requires that Board members must be physically present in order to have their vote officially recorded in the Board minutes. R.C. 3313.18, 3313.20   
Citations to Ohio Statute are noted as R.C. (Revised Code). Citations to Rules of the State Board of Education are noted as A.C. (Administrative Code). Citations to the Federal Register are noted as F.R., to the Code of Federal Regulations as C.F.R., and to the United States Code as U.S.C.   
Adopted 2/90   
Revised 10/11/90   
Revised 1/23/01   
Revised 9/27/05
