0170 - POLICY REVIEW
====================

**0171 - Review of Policy**

The Board will evaluate how policies have been implemented and their
general effectiveness. It will rely on the school staff, students, and
community to provide evidence of the effect of the policies it has
adopted.

The Superintendent shall continually call to the Board's attention all
policies that need revision.

The Board shall periodically review, maintain, update, and publish Board
policies. The Superintendent shall ensure that District employees are
aware of revisions to policy and shall be responsible for compliance
with existing and revised policies.

The Superintendent is further directed to identify and undertake the
correction of technical or formatting errors found in the policy and
regulations. Such correction shall be limited to non-substantive matters
that do not affect the intent, meaning and/or operation of the policy or
regulation. Upon completion of the technical and formatting corrections,
the Superintendent shall provide a listing of the specific corrections
to the Board Policy Committee for review. Should the Board Policy
Committee determine that a correction is substantive in nature, the
Board must take formal action to adopt the amendments to the policy or
regulation. It is hereby determined that legal references or citations
contained in Board policies are of a non-substantive nature such that
they may be updated and/or corrected by the Superintendent as
appropriate, and in a manner consistent with this paragraph.

R.C. 3302.01 - .08

Revised 1/25/05

Revised 4/24/12

**0172 - Employment of Consultants**

The Board of Education may, from time to time, employ or contract with
consultants whose expertise is to be applied to a specific problem or
objective. The activities of such consultants shall be supervised by the
Board or its designee. Consultants serving the Board in this manner
shall receive the full cooperation of the District staff in carrying out
their work.

**0175.1 - School Board Conferences, Conventions, and Workshops**

The Board recognizes the value of membership and attendance at
conferences and meetings at the local, County, State, and National
level. Attendance at local, County, State workshops and conferences is
encouraged.

Each Board member is expected to report back to the Board after
attending a conference at District expense.

Travel and personal expenses of spouse, children, or other guest
traveling with a Board member shall be the responsibility of the Board
member or of the individual. Expenses for convention functions attended
as a group will be borne by the District within budgetary limits.

Adopted 1/25/05
