<!-- Mirrored from www.neola.com/springboro-oh/search/policies/po0120.htm by HTTrack Website Copier/3.x [XR&CO'2013][, Sun, 09 Jun 2013 18:21:06 GMT -->
#0120 - AUTHORITY, POWERS, AND PURPOSE
###0121 - Authority
The supervision of the public schools of this District shall be conducted by the Board of Education, hereinafter sometimes referred to as the "Board", which is constituted and is governed by Code Title 33 Education and Libraries of the Revised Code of the State of Ohio.   
###0122 - Board Powers
The legal basis for education in the Springboro Community City School District is vested in the will of the people as expressed in the constitution of the State, the statutes pertaining to education, court interpretation of the validity of these laws and the powers implied under them. The Board of Education shall be a body politic and corporate and, as such, capable of suing and being sued, contracting and being contracted with, acquiring, holding, possessing, and disposing of real and personal property, and taking and holding in trust for the use and benefit of the District, any grant or devise of land and any donation or bequest of money or other personal property. (R.C. 3313.17)   
The power of this Board extends to those matters expressly granted by statute or those matters which may be necessarily implied from such powers specifically delegated as being necessary to carry them out.   
The Board of Education shall have the management and control of all the public schools in the District and the employees, students, and all other persons entering upon its school grounds or premises. (R.C. 3313.20, 3313.47)   
###0122.1 - Member Powers
Board members as individuals do not separately possess the powers that reside in the Board of Education except when and as expressly authorized by law or this Board. No Board member shall be denied facts or materials required for the proper performance of his/her duties to which s/he is legally entitled.   
If in the opinion of the Superintendent a Board member's request(s) for facts and information is administratively unreasonable, s/he may withhold said facts or material until a ruling is made by the Board.   
###0122.2 - Committee Powers
The Board has no powers when not in session except for such powers as may be delegated by the Board to a committee thereof.   
###0123 - Code of Ethics/Code of Conduct
The Board of Education believes quality public education and good Board service should be conducted in an ethical manner with traditional principles such as honesty, trust, fairness, and integrity. Each Board member should conform his/her conduct to Ohio law, the code of ethics recommended by the Ohio School Boards Association.   
Revised 9/27/05
