<!-- Mirrored from www.neola.com/springboro-oh/search/policies/po0150.htm by HTTrack Website Copier/3.x [XR&CO'2013][, Sun, 09 Jun 2013 18:21:06 GMT -->
#0150 - ORGANIZATION
###0151 - Organizational Meeting
The Board of Education shall organize annually at a meeting held during the first fifteen (15) days of January, on a date set by the Board no later than December 31st of the previous year. The Board shall appoint a President Pro Tempore for the organizational meeting. (R.C. 3313.14)   
Revised 4/23/93   
Revised 1/12/99   
###0152 - Officers
The organizational meeting shall be called to order by the President Pro Tempore who shall act as presiding officer. The Board President from the previous calendar year will serve as President Pro Tempore or, in his/her absence, another member of the Board shall be appointed as President Pro Tempore.   
The oath of office shall be administered to new members by the Treasurer, a member of the Board, or other public official as allowed by law. (R.C. 3313.10)   
The Board shall then proceed to the election of a President. It is the intent of the Board that the Vice President from the previous calendar year shall be elected President. However, any election of officers shall be according to the applicable provisions of the Ohio Revised Code. The new President shall take the chair and proceed with the election of a new Vice President.   
Elections of officers shall be by roll call vote of members physically present taken by the Treasurer. A majority vote of the full Board is necessary to elect any officer.   
Where no such majority exists on the first ballot, a second ballot shall be cast for the two (2) candidates who receive the greatest number of votes.   
A. Officers shall serve for one (1) year and until their respective successors are elected and shall qualify. (R.C. 3313.14)   
B. In the event that the office of President or Vice President becomes vacant, the Board shall fill the vacancy for the unexpired term in the same manner as the election conducted at the organizational meeting.   
Where no such majority exists on the first ballot, a second ballot shall be cast for the two (2) candidates who receive the greatest number of votes.   
A. Officers shall serve for one (1) year and until their respective successors are elected and shall qualify. (R.C. 3313.14)   
B. In the event that the office of President or Vice President becomes vacant, the Board shall fill the vacancy for the unexpired term in the same manner as the election conducted at the organizational meeting.   
Revised 4/23/93   
Revised 1/12/99   
###0153 - Appointees
At the organization meeting, the Board shall appoint:   
A. a member to serve as delegate to the Ohio School Boards Association Annual Conference and another to serve as alternate.   
B. a designee to attend public record access training required for Board members for each term of office (R.C. 109.43).   
Revised 4/22/08   
###0154 - Motions
The Board shall at the organizational meeting:   
A. designate a day, place, and time for regular meetings which shall be held at least once every two (2) months; (R.C. 3313.15)   
B. establish a Service Fund. (R.C. 3315.15)   
Revised 4/22/08   
###0155 - Committees
Committees of Board members shall, when specifically charged to do so by the Board, conduct studies, make recommendations to the Board, and act in an advisory capacity, but shall not take action on behalf of the Board. Whenever a committee and/or sub-committee meets for any pre-arranged discussion of public business of that committee or sub-committee, it shall abide by the Open Meeting Law (R.C. 121.22). The law requires that the committee or sub-committee give public notice of each meeting as well as prepare, file, and maintain minutes of the proceedings. Such minutes shall also be available for inspection by the public. A committee may meet in executive session in accordance with the provisions of Bylaw 0166 - Executive Session.   
Committees shall consist of no more than two (2) members.   
Members shall be appointed by the President who may serve as an ex officio member on any committee as necessary.   
A member may request (or refuse) appointment to a committee.   
Refusal to serve on any one (1) committee shall not be grounds for failure to appoint a member to another committee.   
Each Board committee shall be convened by a chairperson who shall report for the committee and shall be chosen by the committee from among its members.   
Ad hoc committees may be created and charged at any time by the President or a majority of the members present at any meeting at which the need for a committee becomes evident.   
Members of committees shall serve until the committee is discharged.   
R.C. 3313.14   
Revised 1/12/99
