<!-- Mirrored from www.neola.com/springboro-oh/search/policies/po1120.htm by HTTrack Website Copier/3.x [XR&CO'2013][, Sun, 09 Jun 2013 18:21:06 GMT -->
#1120 - ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
The Board of Education recognizes the importance of establishing procedures that strengthen the services and programs of the District, and establish and improve communications, decision-making, conflict resolution, and other relationships among members of the administrative staff.   
In Springboro the District's administrative organization shall be designed so all divisions and departments are a part of a single system guided by Board policies which are implemented through the leadership of the Superintendent.   
Furthermore, the administrative plan supports a team approach to management in an effort to establish close cooperation and effective working relationships among administrative personnel. It is an effort to make the best use of the talents and expertise of administrators by opening lines of communication and by providing a supportive atmosphere where collaborative problem solving and decision-making can take place.   
Although this administrative organization promotes collaborative efforts, it also recognizes the need for independent, site-based administrative action in appropriate areas. This plan in no way functions to inhibit necessary and responsible decision-making.   
In order for this administrative organization to achieve its objectives, the Superintendent shall establish administrative procedures for the operation of administrative staff which shall provide, but not be limited to, regular administrator meetings which include discussion of appropriate concerns identified by the Superintendent, appropriate concerns identified by any member of the administrative staff, and appropriate concerns mutually identified by members of the administrative staff.   
While the administrative organization outlined in this policy places emphasis upon shared responsibility and authority, nothing in this policy is intended to limit the responsibility and authority of the Board ultimately to make decisions as prescribed by law.   
Revised 3/19/91   
</BODY>
