1320 - DUTIES OF THE TREASURER
==============================

The District's Treasurer, in addition to the responsibilities required
by law, is responsible for helping the District achieve its goals by
providing leadership and supervision in the program of fiscal
management.

The Treasurer shall meet the qualifications specified for the position
(A.C. 3301-5-01) and shall be directly responsible to the Board for the
performance of the following assigned duties and responsibilities:

A. serve as the Chief Financial Officer of the District;

B. receive, deposit, manage, disburse, and account for all Federal,
State, and local funds of the District in accordance with the Board's
policies, administrative guidelines, and Ohio law;

C. be responsible for the financial affairs of the District in
accordance with the provisions of State law;

D. establish and maintain long-range fiscal plans and prepare the annual
budget based on District resources and needs;

E. direct and assign employees who are directly engaged in the
day-to-day fiscal operations of the District, as designated by the
Board;

F. provide that all District fiscal activities comply with the laws and
regulations of the State, the negotiated agreements, policies of the
Board, and the District's administrative guidelines;

G. analyze the effectiveness of District business and financial
functions and recommend appropriate changes in program, staffing, and/or
management strategies to meet established District goals;

H. work constructively with the Superintendent and District staff toward
the achievement of District goals

I. promote the efficient and effective use of District resources in the
daily operations of the schools;

J. interpret the budget and the District's fiscal affairs to District
staff and to interested members of the community to secure their input,
involvement, and support for school programs and initiatives;

K. maintain the highest standards of personal conduct, professional
practice, administrative effectiveness, and financial responsibility of
the District;

L. perform such other duties as the Board may direct or assign.

Observation of the Treasurer's performance and preparation of
performance reports shall be the responsibility of the Board.

R.C. 3301.074, 3313.16, 3313.26, 3313.261, 3313.262, 3313.27, 3313.28,
3313.29,\
 R.C. 3313.33, 3313.51\
 A.C. 3301-5-01

Revised 1/10/89\
 Revised 6/26/12
