1340 - NON-REEMPLOYMENT OF THE TREASURER
========================================

The Board of Education has an obligation to the citizens of this
District to employ the professional leadership best trained and equipped
to meet the educational needs of their children. It shall meet that
obligation by retaining only the best qualified person as Treasurer for
this District.

The Board may, at any regular or special meeting held during the period
beginning on the first day of January of the calendar year preceding the
year the Treasurer's contract of employment expires and ending on the
first day of March of the year the contract expires, re-employ the
Treasurer for a succeeding term not longer than five (5) years,
beginning the first day of August immediately following the expiration
of the Treasurer's current term of employment and ending July 31st.

At the expiration of a Treasurer's current term of employment, the
Treasurer is deemed re-employed for a term of one (1) year at the same
salary plus any increment that the Board may authorize, unless the
Board, on or before March 1st of the year in which his/her contract of
employment expires, either re-employs the Treasurer for a succeeding
term or gives to the Treasurer written notice of its intent not to
re-employ the Treasurer.

Except for a Treasurer who is automatically disqualified from service
for failing to hold a valid Treasurer's license and is not considered an
"otherwise qualified Treasurer", the termination of the Treasurer's
contract shall be in accordance with R.C. 3319.16 and may be terminated
for good and just cause.

### Reporting Professional Misconduct

Consistent with Policy [**8141**](po8141.htm) and State law, the Board
and/or the Superintendent will file a report to the Ohio Department of
Education, on forms provided for that purpose, matters of professional
misconduct on the part of the Treasurer, as a licensed professional,
including a conviction of the Treasurer of certain enumerated crimes
and/or conduct which is determined to be unbecoming to the teaching
profession. Reports of any investigation regarding whether or not the
Treasurer has committed an act or offense for which the Board is
required to make a report to the Ohio Department of Education shall be
kept in the personnel file of the Treasurer. Should the Ohio Department
of Education determine that the results of that investigation do not
warrant initiating an action suspending, revoking, or otherwise limiting
the Treasurer's license, the report(s) of any investigation will be
moved to a separate public file.

R.C. 3313.22, 3319.16, 3319.31, 3319.313, 3319.39\
 A.C. 3301-73-21

Adopted 10/9/07\
 Revised 2/22/11
