<!-- Mirrored from www.neola.com/springboro-oh/search/policies/po1400.htm by HTTrack Website Copier/3.x [XR&CO'2013][, Sun, 09 Jun 2013 18:21:06 GMT -->
#1400 - JOB DESCRIPTIONS
The Superintendent shall maintain continuously a comprehensive, coordinated set of job descriptions for certificated and noncertificated positions in order to promote effectiveness, efficiency, and economy in the operation of the District staff.   
Job descriptions for positions of Superintendent and Treasurer, which report directly to this Board, shall be defined as policies of the Board.   
All other job descriptions shall be defined as guidelines of the Superintendent and will be originated and maintained in accordance with the provisions specified in the bylaws of the Board. (Bylaw 0132)   
Revisions to job descriptions shall be reviewed with the employees affected prior to promulgation.   
Each employee will be provided with a copy of his/her job description at the time of employment and any revisions thereto.   
Employees will be evaluated at least in part according to their job descriptions.   
Job descriptions shall be brief, factual, and wherever possible, generically descriptive of similar jobs. Furthermore, job descriptions shall define:   
A. the duties and responsibilities of each position;   
B. the essential functions; and   
C. the corresponding knowledge, skills, and abilities required to properly perform the job.   
Each job description shall include the requirement that the staff member serve as a role model for students in how to conduct themselves as citizens and as responsible, intelligent human beings. In particular, each job description shall indicate the staff member's legal responsibility to help instill in students that belief in and practice of ethical principles and democratic values.   
R.C. 3313.602   
Revised 10/11/90   
Revised 1/12/99
