1541 - TERMINATION AND RESIGNATION
==================================

### Termination

The employment contract of an administrator may be suspended and/or
terminated, upon a majority vote of the Board of Education, for good and
just cause including disclosing a question to a student on a
State-mandated assessment. In such cases, the Board shall abide by due
process, statutory procedures, and any applicable terms of the
administrator's employment contract.

### Resignation

An administrator may resign in accordance with law and any applicable
terms of his/her employment contract.

### Reporting Professional Misconduct

Consistent with Policy [**8141**](po8141.htm) and State law, the Board
and/or the Superintendent will file a report to the Ohio Department of
Education, on forms provided by the Department for that purpose, matters
of professional misconduct on the part of licensed professional
administrators, including a conviction of the administrator of certain
enumerated crimes and/or conduct which is determined to be unbecoming to
the teaching profession. Reports of any investigation regarding whether
or not a licensed professional administrator has committed an act or
offense for which the Board is required to make a report to the Ohio
Department of Education shall be kept in the personnel file of the
administrator. Should the Ohio Department of Education determine that
the results of that investigation do not warrant initiating an action
suspending, revoking, or otherwise limiting that licensed professional
staff administrator's license or permit, the report(s) of any
investigation will be moved to a separate public file.

R.C. 3319.02, 3319.15, 3319.151, 3319.16, 3319.161, 3319.31, 3319.313,
3319.39\
 A.C. 3301-73-21

Adopted 10/9/07\
 Revised 2/22/11
