2140 - EVALUATION OF EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM
========================================

A systematic plan for the continuous evaluation of the District
educational program based upon the educational goals established by the
Board of Education shall be developed and systematically implemented.
Tests and methods indicated by sound professional judgment shall be
used. Wherever possible, assessments shall follow evaluation procedures
set forth in the curriculum guides.

The Superintendent shall advise the Board from time to time of
assessment activities and the progress of the District toward its goals.
The Board will annually make available to the public the progress of the
student body toward the goals of the District.

The Board will periodically and in conjunction with appropriate members
of the administrative staff, conduct a review of the educational
progress of the District, assess District and student needs (including
educational resources), and establish long range and short range
objectives for the educational program.

The Superintendent shall annually recommend improvements in the
educational program based on the Board's evaluation of the District's
program.

Furthermore, the curriculum shall be the product of systematic planning,
articulation, implementation, and evaluation.

The Superintendent may conduct such research programs as are deemed to
be necessary to the continuing growth of the instructional program.

The Superintendent shall report to the Board each research program,
along with its objectives, evaluative criteria, and costs periodically.
Each program must be approved by the Board before it may be instituted.

The Board directs the Superintendent to pursue actively State and
Federal aid in support of approved research activities.

The Superintendent shall make progress reports on curriculum development
to the Board periodically.

R.C. 3301.132, 3313.60\
 A.C. 3301-35-02, 3301-99-01
