2370 - EDUCATIONAL OPTIONS
==========================

The Board of Education recognizes the need to provide alternative means
by which students achieve the goals of the District.

The Superintendent shall prepare a plan of educational options for use
in meeting special needs. Such options may include, but not be limited
to, distance learning, on-line coursework, tutorial programs,
independent study, correspondence courses, educational travel,
mentorship programs, summer school, and early college entrance.

Prior approval of the educational option application by the
Superintendent shall be required before a student participates in one
(1) of the available educational options. Prior permission of a parent
or guardian shall also be required before a student under age eighteen
(18) participates in one (1) of the available educational options.

Participation in an educational option shall be in accordance with an
instructional plan which will be developed based on the individual
student's needs. The instructional plan will include:

A. instructional objectives that align with District's curriculum
requirements;

B. a description of the criteria and method for assessing student
performance;

C. an outline of specific instructional activities, materials and
learning environments.

Participation must be subject to the oversight of a credentialed teacher
who will review the instructional plan, provide or supervise
instruction, and evaluate student performance.

Student performance shall be evaluated as either pass or fail, or by
awarding letter grades relative to the instructional objectives set
forth in the instructional plan.

Credit shall be granted to the student upon successful completion of the
program. The credit shall be placed on the student transcript including
summer school courses. These programs may not be utilized by a student
to avoid taking required courses offered in the school's regular
program.

The Superintendent shall develop the administrative guidelines necessary
to implement this policy.

A.C. 3301-35-06(G)

Revised 5/28/02
