2460.01 - SPECIAL ASSISTANCE ANIMALS
====================================

It is the policy of the Springboro Community City School District to
provide reasonable accommodations for special needs students. If those
special needs include the use of an assistance animal, the Board of
Education wishes to make that accommodation whenever possible.

Placement of an animal in the regular classroom or special needs
classroom may be approved by the Superintendent after recommendation
from the IEP team. The IEP team must take into consideration the needs
of the special student and also those needs of other students in the
classroom. If another student has an allergy from animals, another
classroom must be selected. The needs of the student with an animal
assistant shall not take precedence over a student who has allergic
reactions to animals.

The assistance animal shall be house broken. The parents of the student
with the assistance animal shall inform the building principal how the
animal has been taught to indicate a need to move outside the building.
Special dietary needs of the animal must be provided by the parents
and/or guardian of the student with the assistance animal. Water dishes,
food dishes or any other item needed by the animal must also be provided
by the parent. Any instruction on the control, use, or maintenance of
the animal shall be provided to the District.

The parents of the student will be advised by the building principal,
prior to arrival at school, that Ohio State Law requires a bright strobe
light and very loud piercing horn to alert students of a need to
evacuate the building. The assistance animal needs to be able to at
least tolerate this signal.

The District, may on request, require parents to provide written
documentation from a certified and licensed veterinarian that the animal
is in excellent health and in possession of all required inoculations.

The animal must be professionally trained and/or licensed.

Adopted 1/10/06
