3160 - PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
===========================

The Board of Education, acting through the Superintendent reserves the
right to require, after a conditional offer of employment, that the
successful**candidate submit to a medical**examination in order to
determine his/her physical and/or mental capacity to perform the
essential functions of the position,**with or without reasonable
accommodation, provided that the Board requires other successful
candidates for the same position (or job classification) to do so.

The person who sends the applicant for such an examination should send a
job description to the licensed, qualified practitioner conducting the
examination, and request that the practitioner indicate in writing
whether the applicant can perform the essential functions of the job
identified on the job description; and if not, what accommodation, if
any, the applicant would require in order to perform the job.

Reports of all such examinations or evaluations shall be delivered to
the Superintendent, who shall protect their confidentiality. Reports
will be discussed with the employee or candidate and made a part of an
employee's personal record. In the event of a report of a condition that
could influence job performance, the Superintendent shall base a
nonemployment recommendation to the Board upon a conference with a
physician and substantiation that the condition is directly correlated
to defined job responsibilities.

Employees will be required to execute a release that complies with the
requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
in order to allow the report of the medical examination to be released
to the Board/Superintendent and to allow the Superintendent or his/her
designee to speak to the health care provider who conducted the medical
examination in order to get clarification.

Such report should indicate whether the candidate can perform the
essential functions of the position, with or without reasonable
accommodation.

Employees will be notified of the results of the medical examination
upon receipt. Any and all reports of such examination will be maintained
in a separate confidential personnel file in accordance with the
Americans with Disabilities Act and the Genetic Information
Nondiscrimination Act. In the event of a report indicating that the
candidate is not qualified to perform the position's essential
functions, with or without reasonable accommodation, the Superintendent
will make a recommendation to the Board of non-employment. The
Superintendent or his/her designee may discuss the results of the report
with the healthcare provider who conducted the medical examination prior
to the Superintendent making a recommendation to the Board.

The Board shall pay**for required examinations.

The Board may require, at initial employment, that all professional
staff members undergo a tuberculosis examination in accordance with law
and at the direction of the Ohio Department of Health, the local health
department, or the District's medical advisor.

R.C. 3313.71\
 29 C.F.R. Part 1630\
 29 C.F.R. Part 163542 U.S.C. 12101 et seq., Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990\
 42 U.S.C. 2000ff et seq., The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination
Act\
 A.C. 3701-15-02

Revised 5/11/93\
 Revised 11/30/93\
 Revised 2/4/09\
 Revised 5/11/10
