4131 - REDUCTION IN STAFF
=========================

It is the responsibility of the Board of Education to provide
appropriate staffing levels for the implementation of the educational
program of the District and the operation of the schools and to do so
efficiently and economically.

The Board reserves the right to reduce positions and to suspend the
contracts of staff members pursuant to such reduction whenever reasons
of decreased enrollment of students, return to duty of regular
classified staff members after leaves of absence, suspension of schools
or territorial changes affecting the District, or financial reasons so
warrant. In lieu of suspending an entire contract, the Board may suspend
the contract of a staff member in part and provide a level of
compensation commensurate with the percentage of work performed.

In making any such reduction, the Board will suspend contracts in
accordance with the recommendation of the Superintendent who shall,
within each pay classification affected, give preference first to
employees on continuing contract and then to employees on the basis of
seniority.

Continuing contract employees whose contracts are suspended shall have a
right to restoration of employment in order of seniority of service in
the District if a non-teaching position for which the employee is
qualified becomes vacant or is created. Such continuing contract
employees will not forfeit such right to restoration by reason of having
declined recall to a position with fewer hours.

For covered employees, such reduction shall be in accordance with the
terms of the negotiated, collectively-bargained agreement(s) entered
into prior to September 29, 2005. Reductions occurring under collective
bargaining agreements entered into by the District after September 29,
2005, will be in accordance with the terms of the collective bargaining
agreement(s), but only to the extent that such terms do not conflict
with the requirements of Section 3319.172 of the Ohio Revised Code as
described above.\

This law cannot be superseded by the negotiated contracts.

R.C. 3319.172

Adopted 7/25/06
