4170 - SUBSTANCE ABUSE
======================

The Board of Education recognizes alcoholism and drug abuse as treatable
illnesses. Such illnesses may impair the performance of an employee. The
Board may require the employee enroll in a recognized program of
treatment as a condition of continued employment. The employee's job
security will not be jeopardized by participating in a program but the
Board shall be under no obligation to retain the employee if the
treatment program is not successful.

A noncertificated staff member having an illness or other problem
relating to the use of alcohol or other drugs including, controlled
substances, medications not prescribed by the employee's physician, or
medications not taken as prescribed, will receive the same careful
consideration and offer of assistance that is presently extended to
noncertificated staff having any other illness.

The responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance,
attendance, or behavioral problems resulting from a suspected health
problem rests with the noncertificated employee. Additionally,
regardless of whether a classified staff member has an illness or other
problem relating to the use of alcohol or other drugs it remains the
responsibility of the classified staff member to report to work and
perform his/her duties in a fit and appropriate condition at all times.
Being under the influence of alcohol or other drugs while on duty, on
school property, or at a school related activity/event is not
acceptable. Failure to correct unsatisfactory job performance,
attendance, or behavior, and/or working or reporting to work under the
influence of alcohol or other drugs will result in appropriate
corrective or disciplinary action as determined by the Board, up to and
including termination.

If a classified staff member sustains a workplace injury while s/he is
under the influence of alcohol or a controlled substance not prescribed
by his/her physician, s/he may be disqualified for compensation and
benefits under the Workers Compensation Act. If the classified staff
member tests positive or refuses to submit to a test for alcohol and/or
other drugs after sustaining a workplace injury, the employee may
dispute or prove untrue the presumption or belief that alcohol and/or
other drugs are the proximate cause of the injury (i.e., rebuttable
presumption). The Board directs the Superintendent to establish
guidelines and post a notice advising employees that the results of, or
the employees refusal to submit to an alcohol or other drug test may
affect an employee's right to receive workers' compensation benefits.

If a classified staff member voluntarily requests counseling or
assistance before the Board learns of the classified staff member's
substance abuse problem (through a positive test result or otherwise),
the classified staff member's job security or promotion opportunities
will not be jeopardized by his/her request for counseling or referral
assistance. A support staff member may not avoid the consequences of a
positive test by requesting counseling or assistance for a substance
abuse problem after being instructed to submit to a drug test.

Employees who are concerned that they may have an alcoholism or other
drug abuse problem are encouraged to seek counseling and information on
a confidential basis by contacting resources available for such service.

Medical records of employees with drinking or other drug abuse problems
will be preserved with the same degree of confidence as all other
medical records.

R.C. 2925.01 et seq., 3313.60, 3719.01 et seq., 3793.02, 4123.54\
 Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. 794

Revised 7/23/03\
 Revised 1/13/04\
 Revised 9/27/05
