4217 - WEAPONS
==============

The Board of Education prohibits classified staff members from
possessing, storing, making, or using a weapon in any setting that is
under the control and supervision of the Board for the purpose of school
activities approved and authorized by the Board including, but not
limited to, property leased, owned, or contracted for by the Board, a
school-sponsored event, or in a Board-owned vehicle.

The term "weapon" means any object or substance which, in the manner in
which it is used, is intended to be used, or is represented, is capable
of inflicting serious bodily harm or property damage, as well as
endangering the health and safety of persons. Weapons include, but are
not limited to, firearms, guns of any type, including air and
gas-powered guns (whether loaded or unloaded), knives, razors, clubs,
electric weapons, metallic knuckles, martial arts weapons, ammunition,
and explosives.

The Superintendent shall refer a staff member who violates this policy
to law enforcement officials, regardless of whether such staff member
possesses a valid concealed weapon license. The staff member will also
be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination, as
permitted by applicable Board policy and the terms of existing
collective bargaining agreements.

Exceptions to this policy include:

A. weapons under the control of law enforcement personnel;

B. items approved by a principal as part of a class or individual
presentation under adult supervision, if used for the purpose of and in
the manner approved (Working firearms and ammunition shall never be
approved.);

C. theatrical props used in appropriate settings;

D. starter pistols used in appropriate sporting events;

E. ROTC Props.

The Board directs the Superintendent to post notices prohibiting the
carrying and possession of concealed weapons in a school safety zone,
including schools and school buildings, on school premises and school
buses, and at school activities. The notices shall contain a statement
substantially in the following form:

Unless otherwise authorized by law, pursuant to Ohio Revised Code
2923.122, no person shall knowingly possess, have under the person's
control, convey, or attempt to convey a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance into a school safety zone.

The Superintendent shall conspicuously post such notices at each
entrance of a school and/or school building and in areas inside the
building where visitors are required to report. Notices shall also be
posted at each entrance leading into a school activity (particularly
those activities held outside of the school building) and parcel of
land. Further, notices shall be posted in each school bus and other
Board-owned vehicle, including a school van.

Staff members shall report any information concerning weapons and/or
threats of violence by students, staff members, or visitors to the
principal. Failure to report such information may subject the staff
member to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.

R.C. 2923.12, 2923.122, 2923.22, 3313.20, 2923.1961, 2923.122, 2923.19\
 18 U.S.C. 922

Adopted 1/21/03\
 Revised 6/28/05
