4231 - OUTSIDE ACTIVITIES OF CLASSIFIED STAFF
=============================================

Classified staff members should avoid situations in which their personal
interests, activities, and associations conflict with the interests of
the District. If such situations threaten a staff member's effectiveness
within the School System, the Superintendent and/or Board of Education
shall evaluate the impact of such interest, activity, or association
upon the staff member's responsibilities.

Classified staff members may not dedicate work time to an outside
interest, activity, or association.

Classified staff members may not use school property or school time to
solicit or accept customers for private enterprises.

Classified staff members may not engage in business transactions on
behalf of private enterprises in which s/he may profit by virtue of
his/her official position or authority or benefit financially from
confidential information that the staff member has obtained or may
obtain by reason of his/her position or authority.

Classified staff members may not campaign during working hours on behalf
of any political issue or candidate for local, State, or National
office. Classified staff may not use school property to campaign behalf
of a political issue or candidate.

Classified staff members should refrain from expressions that disrupt
the efficient operation of the school and/or interfere with the
maintenance of discipline by school officials.

R.C. 3313.20

Revised 12/12/06\
 Revised 6/12/12
