4213 - STUDENT SUPERVISION AND WELFARE
======================================

Classified staff members shall maintain a standard of care for the
supervision, control, and protection of students commensurate with
assigned duties and responsibilities and are expected to establish and
maintain professional staff/student boundaries that are consistent with
their legal, professional and ethical duty of care for students.

The Superintendent shall maintain and enforce the following standards:

A. Each classified staff member shall report immediately to a building
administrator any accident, safety hazard, or other potentially harmful
condition or situation s/he detects.

B. Each classified staff member shall immediately report to a building
administrator any knowledge of threats of violence by students.

C. A classified staff member shall not send students on any personal
errands.

E. If a student approaches a classified staff member to seek advice or
to ask questions regarding a personal problem related to sexual
behavior, substance abuse, mental or physical health, and/or family
relationships, etc., the classified staff member may attempt to assist
the student by facilitating contact with certified or licensed
individuals in the District or community who specialize in the
assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of the student's stated problem.
However, under no circumstances should a classified staff member
attempt, unless properly licensed and authorized to do so, to counsel,
assess, diagnose, or treat the student's problem or behavior, nor should
such classified staff member inappropriately disclose personally
identifiable information concerning the student to third persons not
specifically authorized by law.

F. A classified staff member shall not transport students in a private
vehicle without the approval of a building administrator.

G. A student shall not be required to perform work or services that may
be detrimental to his/her health.

H. Classified staff members shall not engage students in electronic
communication via email, texting, social media and/or online networking
media, such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, MySpace, Skype, blogs, etc.,
at any time unless such communication has been specifically authorized
by the student's principal.

I. Classified staff members are prohibited from electronically
transmitting any personally identifiable image of a student(s),
including video, photographs, streaming video, etc. via email, texting,
social media and/or online networking media, such as Facebook, Twitter,
YouTube, MySpace, Skype, blogs, etc.

Since most information concerning a child in school, other than
directory information described in Policy [**8330**](po8330.htm), is
confidential under Federal and State laws, any staff member who shares
confidential information with another person not authorized to receive
the information may be subject to discipline and/or civil liability.
This includes, but is not limited to, information concerning
assessments, grades, behavior, family background, and alleged child
abuse.

Pursuant to the laws of the State and Board Policy
[**8462**](po8462.htm), each classified staff member shall report to the
proper legal authorities, immediately, any sign of suspected child abuse
or neglect.

R.C. 2907.03

Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 12/21/99\
 Revised 1/13/04\
 Revised 6/28/11
