4215 - USE OF TOBACCO BY CLASSIFIED STAFF
=========================================

The Board of Education is committed to providing students, staff, and
visitors with a tobacco and smoke-free environment. The negative health
effects of tobacco use for both users and nonusers, particularly in
connection with second hand smoke, are well established. Further,
providing a non-smoking and tobacco-free environment is consistent with
the responsibilities of teachers and staff to be positive role models
for our students.

For purposes of this policy, "use of tobacco" means to chew or maintain
any substance containing tobacco, including smokeless tobacco, in the
mouth to derive the effects of tobacco, as well as all uses of tobacco
or tobacco substitutes, including cigars, cigarettes, pipe tobacco,
chewing tobacco, snuff, any other matter or substances that contain
tobacco, in addition to papers used to roll cigarettes and/or the
smoking of electronic, "vapor," or other substitute forms of cigarettes,
clove cigarettes, and other lighted smoking devices for burning tobacco
or any other substance.

In order to protect students and staff who choose not to smoke or use
tobacco from an environment noxious to them, and because the Board does
not condone smoking or the use of tobacco, the Board prohibits the use
of tobacco or tobacco substitute products by classified staff members at
all times within any enclosed facility owned or leased or contracted for
by the Board, and in the areas directly or indirectly under the control
of the Board immediately adjacent to locations of ingress or egress to
such facilities. This prohibition extends to any Board-owned and/or
operated vehicles used to transport students and to all other
Board-owned and/or operated vehicles. Such prohibition also applies to
school grounds and/or any school-related event.

R.C. 3313.20, 3313.47, 3313.751, 3794 et seq.\
 20 U.S.C. 6081 et seq., 20 U.S.C. 7182\
 A.C. 3701-52

Adopted 6/28/11
