5540 - INTERROGATION OF STUDENTS
================================

The Board of Education is committed to protecting students from harm
that may or may not be directly associated with the school environment
but also recognizes its responsibility to cooperate with law enforcement
and public children's services agencies.

Such agencies should investigate alleged violations of the law off
school property if at all possible. An investigation can take place
immediately on school property at the request of the building
administrator if the alleged violation of law took place on school
property or in emergency situations.

When police or other authorities arrive at the school and wish to
interview a student or investigate an alleged violation of law, they
must contact the building administrator indicating the nature of their
investigation and their desire to question a student or students.

Before the student(s) is (are) questioned as a witness to or suspect in
an alleged violation of law, the building administrator shall attempt to
contact the parent prior to questioning and shall remain in the room
during the questioning.

If the student is the subject of a child abuse/neglect investigation,
the building administrator shall attempt to contact the parent prior to
questioning. The building administrator or a designated guidance
counselor will remain in the room during questioning. If an agency
investigating child abuse/neglect indicates that the parent is believed
to be the perpetrator, the building administrator will not contact
either parent prior to the interview. The building administrator or a
designated guidance counselor will remain in the room during
questioning.

All attempts to notify the parents should be documented diligently.

When an authorized law enforcement officer or children's services agency
removes a student, the building administrator shall notify the parent
and the Superintendent.

No school official may release personally identifiable student
information in education records to the police or children's services
agency without prior written permission of the parent, a lawfully-issued
subpoena, or a court order. (See Board Policy [**8330**](po8330.htm)).

In the event of an allegation of child abuse, the following guidelines
shall apply:

A. Upon request from the Children Services Board (CSB) to interview a
student on school premises, every effort will be made to coordinate such
student interviews with the student's class schedule, to the extent
reasonably possible, to cause the least disruption to the student's
education.

B. Where the student is suspected to be a victim of child abuse, it is
in the best interest of that student to expedite the interview process.

C. During an interview of a child by CSB, either the building level
administrator and/or his/her designee will be present throughout the
interview process.

D. This Board's policy relating to visitation of school buildings shall
apply to CSB, police, and the sheriff's office.

When an agency request permission to remove or requires removal of a
student the principal shall notify the Superintendent immediately.

R.C. 3313.20, 3319.321

Revised 6/8/93\
 Revised 5/14/02\
 Revised 1/23/07
