5530 - SUBSTANCE ABUSE EDUCATION AND INTERVENTION
=================================================

**A. Philosophy Statement**

The Springboro Community School District recognizes its responsibility
to provide all students with an environment conducive to the development
of their maximum learning potential. The presence of alcohol and other
drugs in the school or students who have alcohol and other drug problems
is a deterrent to learning, thereby limiting, interfering with or
inhibiting the primary responsibility vested in the educational system.

The Board has established a drug free zone within 1000 feet of any
facility used by the District for educational purposes.

The District is concerned about the disruption of the learning
environment of all students exposed to alcohol and other drug related
behaviors. The District is concerned about the health of its students.
Students adversely affected by alcohol and other drugs in the school
increase the likelihood that the safety and well being of our students
will be disrupted through accidents, fights, absenteeism, poor academic
performance, chronic discipline problems, etc.

Springboro Community Schools Board recognizes that student alcohol and
other drug use is wrong and harmful. Student alcohol and other drug use
is a community problem requiring a community solution. Since the
Springboro Community Schools are an integral part of the community, it
is in the best interest of the community that steps be taken to promote,
enhance, and maintain a drug-free school environment. The District also
recognizes that alcohol and other drug use may lead to addiction, a
treatable medical disease. In response, it is the policy to provide
discipline as well as positive action to address alcohol and other drug
use and/or dependency.

In developing this policy, the Board has tried to maintain a balance
between compassion and aid to students suffering from alcohol and other
drug use, and the protection of the academic environment of students who
wish to learn. It is recognized that the rights of students who do not
use alcohol and other drugs must be protected. They should not have to
be exposed to the possibility of being involved in illegal activities.
The Board recognizes that the rights of administrators and teachers to
perform their duties must be protected. They must take their place as
educators and not perform the duties of police or a diagnostician.
Additionally it is important to recognize the School District is not a
treatment program. Diagnosis, treatment, and aftercare are complex
processes that require trained specialists. Instead our goals are
**education/prevention**, **intervention/referral** and
**support/guidance**.

The Board is responsible for establishing a policy and directing its
implementation. The policy is enforced by District administrators and
Drug Free Schools program Coordinator. The Board calls upon
administrators, faculty, staff, parents and students to collectively
ensure the policy's success.

**B. Policy Statement**

The Board shall not permit any student to possess, transmit, conceal,
show evidence of having consumed, be under the influence of, use or
offer for sale any alcoholic beverages, illegal drugs, unprescribed
drugs, look-alike drugs or any mind altering substance while on school
grounds or facilities; at school sponsored events; in other situations
under the authority of the District or in controlled vehicles, which
include, school owned vehicles and private vehicles parked on school
property or at school sponsored events. Included in this prohibition are
any substances represented as a controlled substance, nonalcoholic
beers, steroids, tobacco and tobacco products, and any drug-related
paraphernalia as the term is defined by law.

Students found in violation of this policy will be subject to
disciplinary action as prescribed within the student code of conduct up
to and including expulsion and referral for prosecution. A reduction in
penalty may be granted if the student receives professional assistance.
Professional assistance may include but not be limited to assessment
with follow through based on the assessment findings, an alcohol/drug
education program; counseling, outpatient treatment or inpatient
treatment. Students who need to take prescription or nonprescription
medications must adhere to the policies described within the student
handbook.

**C. Education/Prevention**

The District will take a comprehensive, progressive, age appropriate
approach in the development of curricula and programs which promote
positive life skill development and an awareness of the consequences
associated with alcohol and other drug use. The guidelines, goals, and
objectives for prevention/education development will be based on
information provided through our local advisory board, Ohio Department
of Education, and the Ohio Prevention and Education Resource Center.

Additionally, opportunities for continued alcohol and other drug use
prevention and intervention staff training and awareness will be made
available in order to enhance the consistent implementation and success
of this policy.

**D. Intervention/Referral**

It shall be the policy of the schools to provide an intervention process
designed to confront problem behaviors within students which may
indicate alcohol and other drug use. Intervention strategies will
reflect a collaboration of staff administrators, guidance and drug free
schools program coordinator. Intervention strategies will be initiated
but not limited to the following circumstances:

​1. Students seeking help.

​2. Students exhibiting inappropriate, unusual or atypical behavior.

​3. Disciplinary action involving violations of this policy and the
student code of conduct.

A working relationship will exist among the District and local
professional helping agencies in order to enhance familiarity,
communication, referral and follow-up.

The District will maintain a file of information about any drug and
alcohol counseling, rehabilitation and re-entry programs that are
available to students.

Students successfully completing an inpatient treatment program will not
be penalized for days missed from school. Students will be recognized as
absent due to medical reasons. Every effort will be made by the schools
to maintain contact with the treatment agency and provide academic
instructional materials. Additionally, every effort will be made by the
District to assure the students successful transition back into the
school atmosphere.

**E. Support/Guidance**

Springboro Community Schools recognizes the importance of guidance
activities which provide support to students who are experiencing
problems either directly or indirectly due to alcohol and other drug
use. Therefore, programs such as individual guidance, support groups and
mentorship programs will be utilized as a means of providing support and
guidance to students within the school environment. Such activities may
also be provided which promote drug free lifestyles and support for
students who are concerned in regards to a loved ones alcohol or other
drug use.

**F. Parent/Community**

Parent involvement must coincide with school efforts in order for
significant and consistent positive impact in regards to student alcohol
and other drug use. Therefore, through the community arm of our drug
free schools program and guidance plan, parent education programs shall
be made available to the community. These programs will focus on
parental prevention and intervention strategies.

**G. Student and Parent Notification**

At the beginning of each school year, the student code of conduct is to
be reviewed with every student as part of the orientation process.
Students and parents will be notified that compliance with this policy,
and standards of conduct set forth in the student code of conduct, are
mandatory. Notices will be sent home to parents and/or guardians,
requiring a parental signature each year, in order to ensure parental
support and compliance.

Additionally, the Superintendent shall establish administrative
guidelines necessary to ensure that proper notice regarding the use of
anabolic steroids is posted in each of the District's locker rooms used
by students in grades 7-12.

**H. Offenses and Disciplinary Action**

The following procedures shall be followed in dealing with possession,
use, transmission, or being under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol.
All students are responsible for understanding the schools Alcohol and
Other Drug policy. The students are to use this information to make
appropriate decisions about substance use.

**1. First Offense**

​a. The principal will try to notify the parent(s)/guardian(s) by phone
to explain the incident and arrange a conference.

​b. The principal will suspend the student for ten (10) days in
compliance with student due-process procedures. A student involved in a
co-curricular or extra-curricular activity will be ineligible to
participate during the term of the suspension. Any reduction of
suspension due to participation in a professional evaluation will apply
to extra-curricular activities also. Students involved in
extra-curricular or co-curricular activities will be subject to
appropriate penalties in the rules of the activity.

​c. Within twenty-four (24) hours, the principal shall notify the
parent(s)/guardian(s) in writing of the suspension using the Suspension
Form.

The Board strongly recommends that students who have been suspended for
a first violation of the policy seek a professional evaluation and, if
appropriate, treatment from a trained chemical dependency counselor or a
licensed physician trained in chemical dependency. The suspension of a
student who agrees to be evaluated and follows through with the
recommendations of the evaluator will be commuted to five (5) days.
School officials will provide a list of agencies/professionals who can
do the assessment and provide treatment if appropriate.

The choice of agency/professional is left to the student and the family.
Fees for this assessment and treatment are the responsibility of the
student and family. Upon receipt of appropriate authorization, the
agency or professional will be requested to notify the principal that
the student has been evaluated.

Coaches and advisors of school-sponsored activities will formulate
written rules, approved in advance by the principal, for student
participants who disregard the substance abuse education and
intervention policy. These rules in no way replace the substance abuse
education and intervention policy. These written rules shall be
presented to the students at the beginning of their participation in the
activity.

**2. Second and Subsequent Offenses**

​a. The principal will contact the parent(s)/guardian(s) to arrange a
conference.

​b. The principal will suspend the student for ten (10) days in
compliance with student due process procedures.

​c. The principal shall notify the parent(s)/guardian(s) in writing of
the suspension using the Suspension Form.

​d. The principal will recommend to the Local Superintendent that the
student be expelled unless the stated procedure is followed:

​1) The student must agree to be evaluated by a trained chemical
dependency counselor or a licensed physician trained in chemical
dependency and to follow the recommendation of the evaluator.

​2) Upon appropriate authorization, the agency or professional notifies
the principal that the student has decided to follow through with the
recommendation of the evaluator. If the student is following through
with the recommendation of the evaluator, s/he will not be recommended
for expulsion.

The following procedures shall be followed in dealing with
supplying/selling of psychoactive or mood-altering chemicals, or
substances represented to be controlled substances.

**3. First and Subsequent Offenses**

​a. The principal will try to notify the Parent(s)/Guardian(s) by phone
to explain the incident and arrange a conference.

​b. The principal will suspend the student for ten (10) days in
compliance with student due process and will recommend to the
Superintendent that the student be expelled.

​c. The principal will notify the parent(s)/guardian(s) in writing of
the suspension using the Suspension Form.

​d. The principal may refer the case to the local law enforcement
authorities.

​e. A hearing on the case conducted by the Superintendent will be held.
Based on the results of this hearing, the Superintendent will determine
whether or not to expel the student.

R.C. 2925.37, 3313.60(E), 3313.661, 3313.662, 3313.752, 3313.95,
3319.012\
 Public Law 101 - (Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act as amended in
1989)\
 20 U.S.C. 3171 et seq.\
 20 U.S.C. 3224A

Revised 10/11/90\
 Revised 5/11/93\
 Revised 6/8/93\
 Revised 2/25/99\
 Revised 8/1/11
