5610.01 - PERMANENT EXCLUSION OF NONDISABLED STUDENTS
=====================================================

In accordance with the law, the Board of Education may seek to
permanently exclude a student, sixteen (16) years of age or older, who
has been convicted of or adjudicated delinquent for the reason of the
following offenses:

A. carrying a concealed weapon or conveying or possessing a deadly
weapon or dangerous ordnance on property owned or controlled by a board
of education or at an activity held under the auspices of this Board

B. possessing, selling, or offering to sell controlled substances on
property owned or controlled by a board of education or at an activity
under the auspices of this Board

C. rape, gross sexual imposition or felonious sexual penetration

D. murder, manslaughter, felonious or aggravated assault

E. complicity to commit any of the above offenses, regardless of where
the complicity occurred

The above statement of policy on permanent exclusion is to be posted in
a central location in each school as well as made available to students,
upon request.

If the Superintendent has adequate evidence that a student, sixteen (16)
years old or older at the time of the offense, has been convicted of or
is an adjudicated delinquent resulting from any of the above offenses,
s/he may submit a written recommendation to the Board that the student
should be permanently excluded from the public schools by the State
Superintendent of Public Instruction. The recommendation is to be
accompanied by the evidence, other information required by statute, and
the name and position of the person who should present the District's
case to the State Superintendent. The Board, after considering all the
evidence, including the hearing of witnesses, shall take action within
fourteen (14) days after receipt of the Superintendent's recommendation.

If the Board adopts the resolution, the Superintendent shall submit it
to the State Superintendent, together with the required documents and
the name of the person designated by the Board as its representative to
present the case to the State Superintendent. A copy of the resolution
shall be sent to both the student and his/her parents.

If the Board fails to pass the resolution, it shall so notify the
Superintendent, in writing, who, in turn, shall provide written
notification of the Board's action to both the student and his/her
parents.

If the State Superintendent rejects the Board's request, the District
Superintendent shall readmit the student in accordance with statute and
District guidelines.

If the State Superintendent acts on the Board's request, his/her actions
and those of the District shall be in accord with the procedures
described in statute.

R.C. 2151.27, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2907.02, 2907.05\
 R.C. 2907.12, 2923.12, 2923.22, 2925.03, 2923.01, 2923.02, 2923.122\
 R.C. 3313.66, 3313.661, 3313.662

Revised 5/11/93\
 Revised 2/25/99\
 Revised 8/1/11
