6510 - PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION
============================

Employment of all District personnel whether by the year, term, month,
week, day, or hour in contract, temporary, or substitute form must be
approved by the Board of Education except where authority to appoint
certain personnel of the District has been delegated to the
Superintendent.

Each motion of the Board to employ or reemploy on a contractual basis
(i.e., for a fixed period of time) shall include the name of the
individual, the position title, the salary reference, the effective
date, and whether on a limited or continuing contract basis.

Each motion of the Board to employ on a temporary basis (i.e., by the
hours or day) shall include the name of the individual, the position
title, the rate of pay, and effective date of employment.

All substitute employees shall be approved by the Board. A list of
substitute employees shall be maintained. It shall include the name of
the substitute and the type of duty for which s/he may be utilized.

The Board shall take note in its minutes of all actions with regard to
resignation, retirement, death or discharge of all employees or the
nonreemployment of a teacher. Each such action shall include the name of
the employee and the date upon which salary or wages will terminate

Time sheets are required on a bi-weekly basis of all non-certificated
staff and certificated employees hired on an hourly basis in order to
verify days and hours worked for payment purposes.

Authorization is hereby given to withhold salary or wages for unapproved
time off in accordance with Board policy.

Overtime can only be paid noninstructional employees when authorized by
the supervisor.

Payroll checks shall be signed by the Treasurer.

R.C. 9.40, 3319.36

Revised 1/24/06
