6620 - PETTY CASH FUNDS
=======================

The Board of Education recognizes the convenience afforded the
day-to-day operation of the schools by the establishment of one (1) or
more petty cash funds. Therefore, the Board shall adopt annually a
resolution establishing one (1) or more petty cash funds. This
resolution shall:

A. specify the maximum amount to be placed in each individual petty cash
fund;

B. require the Treasurer to designate the District official(s) who will
be designated custodian(s) of each individual fund and therefore,
authorized to expend money from that fund.

The Board shall require the imposition of such controls as will prevent
abuse of such funds. Accordingly, the Treasurer shall develop guidelines
specifying the fund controls for any petty cash fund.

Each custodian of a petty cash fund shall ensure that the funds in
his/her care shall be disbursed only for minor expenditures not readily
deferred. No petty cash fund may be used to circumvent the purchasing
procedures required by law and the policies of the Board. A request for
disbursement from a petty cash fund must be made in writing, be signed
by the person making the request, and include such supporting
documentation as may be appropriate. Disbursements from a petty cash
fund will be made in cash. The petty cash box must be secured daily.

The custodian of each petty cash fund shall prepare a schedule of
disbursements when the funds available have declined to less than
twenty-five percent (25%) of the full amount authorized and shall show
the disbursements by line account numbers. The custodian shall submit
the schedule to the Treasurer with a voucher requesting replenishment in
like amount.

All petty cash funds will be closed out for an audit at the end of the
school year and unused funds will be returned to the depository. The
Treasurer will be responsible for conducting said audit of each petty
cash fund and shall report the results of the audit to the Board.

******

R.C. 3313.291, 3313.51

Adopted 8/28/01
