6630 - ATHLETIC FUND
====================

It is the purpose of the Board of Education to establish financial
controls for the management of athletic programs and activities
associated with athletics.

The athletic fund shall consist of those programs which have student
participation but not student management.

The Treasurer shall be responsible for the accounting control of the
athletic fund. The fund will be audited annually and will be
administered under the appropriate accounting controls.

All gate receipts must be turned in to the athletic director on the day
of collection and must be deposited within twenty-four (24) hours.

All payments for supplies, equipment, and services for the
interscholastic athletic program will be made in accordance with
established purchasing procedures of the District.

In compliance with the laws of the State for the establishment and
maintenance of student activity funds, the following guidelines shall
govern each athletic fund:

A. Purchase orders for goods and services purchased through the athletic
fund will be approved by the Superintendent.

B. Disbursements from the athletic fund will be made by check and
approved by the Treasurer.

C. At the conclusion of each athletic program, the athletic director
shall, within six (6) weeks, complete an inventory of all equipment and
supplies.

D. Any school sponsored athletic organization or group which has
financial transactions involving \$50.00 or more shall establish an
account on the District records in which it shall record such
transactions.

E. Advisors, coaches, or sponsors shall be selected at the direction of
the Superintendent or designee and their duties shall consist of
preparing the annual budget and purpose clause of their activity group;
supervising the activities of their group, including preparation of fund
raising potentials and maintaining group financial oversight; and such
other duties as assigned by the principal or Superintendent.

F. All school sponsored athletic fund raising activities shall have
proper approval by the Athletic Director, and Superintendent/Designee.

G. No athletic fund organization shall be obligated for the purchases
made by the students, faculty, and others unless such purchase is
supported by a written purchase order signed by the Superintendent.

Revised 3/14/06
