7217 - WEAPONS
==============

The Board of Education prohibits visitors from possessing, storing,
making, or using a weapon, including a concealed weapon, in a school
safety zone and any setting that is under the control and supervision of
the Board for the purpose of school activities approved and authorized
by the Board including, but not limited to, property leased, owned, or
contracted for by the Board, a school-sponsored event, or in a
Board-owned vehicle.

The term "weapon" means any object or substance which, in the manner in
which it is used, is intended to be used, or is represented, is capable
of inflicting serious bodily harm or property damage, as well as
endangering the health and safety of persons. Weapons include, but are
not limited to, firearms, guns of any type, including air and
gas-powered guns, (whether loaded or unloaded), knives, razors, clubs,
electric weapons, metallic knuckles, martial arts weapons, ammunition,
and explosives.

The Superintendent or his/her designee shall refer a visitor who
violates this policy to law enforcement officials and may take any
necessary steps to exclude the visitor from Board property and
Board-sponsored events, regardless of whether such visitor possesses a
valid concealed weapon license.

Exceptions to this policy include:

A. weapons under the control of law enforcement personnel;

B. items approved by a principal as part of a class or individual
presentation under adult supervision, if used for the purpose of and in
the manner approved (working firearms and ammunition shall never be
approved);

C. theatrical props used in appropriate settings;

D. starter pistols used in appropriate sporting events;

E. ROTC Props;

F. visitor with a valid concealed weapons license, who is the driver or
passenger in a motor vehicle and is in the school safety zone while
immediately in the process of picking up or dropping off a child.

The Board directs the Superintendent or his/her designee to post notices
prohibiting the carrying and possession of concealed weapons in a school
safety zone, including schools and school buildings, on school premises
and school buses, and at school activities. The notices shall contain a
statement substantially in the following form:

Unless otherwise authorized by law, pursuant to Ohio Revised Code
2923.122, no person shall knowingly possess, have under the person's
control, convey, or attempt to convey a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance into a school safety zone.

The Superintendent or his/her designee shall conspicuously post such
notices at each entrance of a school and/or school building and in areas
inside the building where visitors are required to report. Notices shall
also be posted at each entrance leading into a school activity
(particularly those activities held outside of the school building) and
parcel of land. Further, notices shall be posted in each school bus and
other Board-owned vehicle, including a school van.

R.C. 2923.12, 2923.122, 2923.22, 3313.20, 2923.1961, 2923.122, 2923.19\
 18 U.S.C. 922

Revised 1/21/03\
 Revised 6/28/05\
 Revised 11/18/08\

