8431 - PREPAREDNESS FOR TOXIC HAZARD AND ASBESTOS HAZARD
========================================================

The Board of Education is concerned for the safety of the students and
staff members and will attempt to comply with all Federal and State
statutes and regulations to protect them from hazards that may result
from industrial accidents beyond the control of school officials or from
the presence of asbestos materials used in previous construction.

### TOXIC HAZARDS

These hazards exist in chemicals and other substances used in the school
setting such as in laboratories, science classrooms, kitchens, and in
the cleaning of rooms and equipment.

The Superintendent shall appoint an employee to serve as Toxic Hazard
Preparedness (THP) Officer. The THP Officer is responsible for:

A. identifying potential sources of toxic hazard in cooperation with
material suppliers who shall supply the THP Officer with Material Safety
Data Sheets (MSDS's);

B. verifying that all incoming materials, including portable containers,
are properly labeled with the identity of the chemical, the hazard
warning, and the name and address of the manufacturer or responsible
party;

C. maintaining a current file of MSDSs for every hazardous material
present on District property;

D. designing and implementing a written communication program which:

​1. lists hazardous materials present on District property,

​2. details the methods used to inform staff and students of the
hazards, and

​3. describes the methods used to inform contractors and their employees
of any hazardous substances to which they may be exposed and of any
corrective measures to be employed;

E. conducting a training program for all District employees to include
such topics as detection of hazards, explanation of the health hazards
to which they could be exposed in their work environment, and the
District's plan for communication, labeling, etc.

In fulfilling these responsibilities, the THP Officer may enlist the aid
of county and municipal authorities and, if possible, the owners or
operators of identified potential sources of toxic hazard.

The Board may, in its discretion, appoint and charge an ad hoc committee
of community representatives to assist the THP Officer.

### APPLICATION OF PESTICIDES

Any staff member or contractor who applies pesticides on District
property shall meet the requirements of AG 8431A in addition to the
requirements established by law.

Written notification shall be provided each year, prior to any pesticide
application when school is in session, to those parents, adult students,
and employees requesting prior notification of scheduled pesticide
applications:

A. that a pesticide is to be applied;

B. the type of pesticide and its potential side effects;

C. the location of the application; and

D. the date of the application.

The method and type of prior notifications and signage shall be
determined by the District (AG 8431A).

If circumstances arise that prevent prior notification from being
provided, regarding such emergency application of pesticides to control
organisms that pose an immediate health threat, the District shall
provide notice as soon as possible. In addition to the information
specified above, the notice shall provide the reasons why advance notice
was not provided.

### ASBESTOS

In its efforts to comply with Asbestos Hazard Emergency Response Act
(AHERA), the Ohio Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA), and the
Ohio Public Employment Risk Reduction Act (PERRA) the Board recognizes
its responsibility to:

A. inspect all District buildings for the existence of asbestos or
asbestos-containing materials;

B. take appropriate actions based on the inspections;

C. establish a program for dealing with friable asbestos, if found;

D. maintain a program of periodic surveillance and inspection of
facilities or equipment containing asbestos;

E. comply with EPA regulations governing the transportation and disposal
of asbestos and asbestos-containing materials.

The Superintendent shall appoint a person to develop and implement the
District's Asbestos-Management Program. Said individual will be
responsible for the District's proper compliance with Federal and State
laws and the appropriate instruction of staff and students.

The Superintendent shall also verify that, when conducting asbestos
abatement projects, each contractor employed by the District is licensed
pursuant to the Ohio Department of Health Regulations.

Nothing in this policy should be construed in any way as an assumption
of liability by the Board for any death, injury, or illness that is the
consequence of an accident or equipment failure or negligent or
deliberate act beyond the control of the Board or its officers and
employees.

40 C.F.R. 763.92\
 Asbestos Hazard Emergency Response Act of 1986 (AHERA)\
 15 U.S.C. 2601, 20 U.S.C. 4022, 20 U.S.C. 4014, 20 U.S.C. 4011 et seq.\
 Asbestos School Hazard Abatement Act of 1984\
 Asbestos School Hazard Abatement Reauthorization Act of 1990, 20 U.S.C.
4011\
 Public Employee Risk Reduction Act (PERRA) R.C. 4167.01 et seq.\
 R.C. 921.01 et seq.\
 A.C. 901:5-11 et seq., 3701-34-06

Revised 6/22/04\
 Revised 6/28/11
