8510 - WELLNESS
===============

The Board of Education recognizes that good nutrition and regular
physical activity affect the health and well-being of the District's
students. Furthermore, the District believes that there is a positive
correlation between a student's health and well-being and their ability
to learn. Moreover, schools can play an important role in the
developmental process by which students establish their health and
nutrition habits by providing nutritious meals and snacks through the
school meal programs, by supporting the development of good eating
habits, and by promoting increased physical activity both in and out of
school.

The Board believes development of healthy behaviors and habits with
regard to eating and exercise cannot be accomplished by the schools
alone. It will be necessary for not only the staff, but also parents and
the public at large to be involved in a community-wide effort to
promote, support, and model healthy eating behaviors, physical activity
and promote lifelong healthful and habits.

The Board sets the following goals in an effort to enable students to
establish good health and nutritional habits:

A. The primary goal of nutrition education in the schools is to
positively influence students to make healthy choices in their eating
behaviors and lifestyle. The District shall:

​1. Provide nutrition education in the health curriculum so that
instruction provides students with the knowledge, attitudes and skills
necessary to lead healthy lives.

​2. When appropriate, integrate nutrition education into other subject
areas of the curriculum.

B. The primary goal for the District's physical activity program is to
provide opportunities for every student to develop knowledge and skills
for specific physical activities, maintain physical fitness, regularly
participate in physical activity and understand the short- and long-term
benefits of a physically active and healthful lifestyle. The District
shall provide a sequential, comprehensive physical education program for
students in K-12.

C. For school based activities, the District shall establish guidelines
to promote a healthy school environment that will provide a consistent
wellness message and be conducive to healthy eating and physical
activity.

To further enhance student health and well-being, and reduce childhood
obesity, the District shall:

A. Comply with Policy [**8500**](po8500.htm), entitled "Food Service."
The District's food service program, shall comply with Federal and State
regulations pertaining to the selection, preparation, consumption, and
disposal of food and beverages as well as to the fiscal management of
the program.

B. Assure that in Policy [**8531**](po8531.htm), entitled Free and
Reduced Price Meals, the Guidelines for reimbursable school meals are
not less restrictive than the guidelines issued by the U.S. Department
of Agriculture.

C. Establish guidelines for foods and beverages for a la carte sales in
the food service program, vending machines, school stores and concession
stands.

The Board designates and charges the District's Wellness Committee with
the operational responsibility for measuring and evaluating the
District's implementation and progress of the Wellness Guidelines under
this policy. The Superintendent and/or designee shall develop the
procedures necessary to implement this policy.

The Superintendent and/or designee shall report on the District's
compliance with this policy and the progress toward achieving the goals
set forth herein when requested to do so by the Board.

Review of this policy shall occur every year, by a committee appointed
by the Board or its designee, consisting of a representative(s) of the
Board, the administration, the food service provider, the nurses, the
parents, the students, and the public. The committee shall provide the
Superintendent and/or designee with any recommended changes to this
policy.

42 U.S.C. 1751, Sec. 204\
 42 U.S.C. 1771

Adopted 3/11/08
