8531 - FREE AND REDUCED-PRICE MEALS
===================================

The Board of Education recognizes the importance of good nutrition to
each student's educational performance.

The Board shall provide needy children with lunch at a reduced rate or
no charge to the student.

Children, eligible for free or reduced-price meals, shall be determined
by the criteria established by the Child Nutrition Program and National
School Lunch Act. These criteria are issued annually by the Federal
government through the State Department of Education.

The Board designates the Food Service Manager to determine in accordance
with Board standards, the eligibility of students for free and
reduced-price meals.

The schools shall annually notify all families of the availability,
eligibility requirements, and application procedure for free and
reduced-price meals by distributing an application to the family of each
student enrolled in the school and shall seek out and apply for such
Federal, State, and local funds as may be applied to the District's
program of free and reduced-price meals.

The Superintendent shall prepare and implement the necessary
arrangements and guidelines to ensure proper operation of this program.
S/He shall ensure that the appropriate policy attachments for Free and
Reduced-Price Meals or Free Milk are properly completed and submitted
for approval to the School Food Service Division of the State Department
of Education by the beginning of each school year.

R.C. 3313.81, 3313.812-814\
 42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.\
 42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.

Revised 4/22/08
