9210 - DISTRICT-SUPPORT ORGANIZATIONS
=====================================

### Relations With Parent Organizations

The Board of Education supports all organizations of parents whose
objectives are to promote the educational experiences of District
students. However, in using the name of the District or its schools and
in organizing a group whose identity derives from a school(s) of the
District, parental organizations share responsibility with the Board for
the welfare of participating students.

Parent organizations desiring to use the name or office of the District
to organize students must obtain the approval of the Board as a
prerequisite.

Each parent and/or support organization must obtain the approval of the
Board as a prerequisite to organizing, and shall work within the
appropriate school setting and in cooperation with the principal and
other staff members and shall abide by the policies of the Board. Each
group will submit its bylaws to the Superintendent or designee.

The Board shall offer the opportunity for any authorized school support
entity to receive coverage under the District's liability insurance
program to protect the entity against claims resulting from any act or
omission of any school-support entity. The entity shall pay for such
coverage as invoiced by the Treasurer.

Principals and staff members need to work closely with the officers of
all parent organizations to enhance the educational opportunities for
students. The activities must be integrated and balanced in accordance
with the total District educational program and District goals and
objectives must comply with all State and local laws and regulations.

Parent organizations that wish to construct anything on school property
must have the permission of the Board in advance of the construction
project. The organization must provide the Board, in writing, proof of
financial stability and that funds are available for the construction
project.

Parent organizations may be required to submit financial records of
their activities in such detail as may be requested by the
Superintendent.

### Relations With Booster Organizations

The Board recognizes that the endeavors and objectives of booster
organizations can be a valuable means of stimulating interest and
endorsement of the aims and achievements of the District.

Booster organizations must submit, in a timely fashion, to the
Superintendent/designee; if requested; their tentative goals and
objectives along with their fund-raising plans for the next school year
for review. Should the goals and objectives or fund-raising plans change
after said request is made, the Superintendent/designee is to be advised
before any final revisions are made.

Booster organizations must abide by all District policies and rules as
well as the following list.

A. Booster organizations should not use the school's tax ID number.

B. Booster organizations should not accept checks made out to the school
and vice versa.

C. District employees (administrators, exempt staff, and union members)
shall not have a leadership role in booster organizations.

D. Fund-raising activities should not occur on school premises or during
school hours unless permission has been given by the
Superintendent/designee.

E. Documentation on ownership of property and fund-raising activities is
required.

F. The use of the District name and emblems must be authorized.

G. Booster organizations must submit their bylaws to the Superintendent
at his/her request for review. Reports on income, expenses, and balance
sheets in such detail as requested by the Superintendent and/or the
Treasurer/CFO.

The Board relies upon approved organizations to operate in a manner
consistent with public expectations for the schools and reserves the
right to withdraw approval from organizations which violate the bounds
of community taste. Care must be taken to avoid compromising or diluting
the responsibility and authority of the Board.

R.C. 3313.20

Revised 8/10/93\
 Revised 11/28/06\
 Revised 3/27/07
