Springboro Community Schools

Bylaws & Policies

 

* * * * *

****

0130 - FUNCTIONS

0131

****

Legislative

 

 

 

The Board of Education shall make such administrative guidelines as are
necessary for its government and the government of its employees and
students on its grounds or premises, by adopting bylaws and policies for
the organization and operation of this Board and School District. (R.C.
3313.20)

 

 

 

Those bylaws and policies which are not dictated by the Statutes or
rules of the State Board of Education or ordered by the Superintendent
of Public Instruction or a court of competent authority may be adopted,
amended, and repealed at any meeting of the Board, provided the proposed
adoption, amendment, or repeal shall have been proposed at a previous
Board meeting and, once proposed, shall have remained on the agenda of
each succeeding Board meeting until approved or rejected.

 

 

 

If the Board wishes to take action contrary to existing policy, it may
suspend the policy only for one meeting at a time and only in the
following manner: (1) upon a majority vote of the membership of the
Board at a meeting where the prior call for the proposed suspension has
been described in writing; or (2) upon a unanimous vote of all members
of the Board when no such notice has been given.

 

 

 

Bylaws shall be adopted, amended, or repealed by a two-thirds (2/3's)
vote of the full Board. Policies shall be adopted, amended, or repealed
by a majority vote of the full Board. (Two-thirds (2/3's) of a five (5)
member Board is four (4) members).

 

 

 

The adoption, modification, repeal, or suspension of a Board bylaw or
policy shall be recorded in the minutes of the Board. All bylaws and
policies shall be printed in the Board policy manual. Any policy or part
of a policy that is superseded by a term in a negotiated agreement shall
no longer be in force and effect as a policy.

 

 

 

The Board may adopt, amend, or repeal rules of order for its own
operation by simple resolution of the Board passed by a majority of
those present and voting.

0132

****

Executive

 

 

 

The Board shall exercise its executive power by the appointment of a
Superintendent of Schools, hereinafter referred to as "Superintendent,"
and a Treasurer. (R.C. 3319.01)

 

 

 

The Superintendent shall enforce the Statutes of Ohio, rules of the
State Board, and the policies of this Board. (R.C. 3319.01)

 

 

 

The Superintendent may prepare guidelines for the administration of the
School District which are not inconsistent with statutes or regulations
of the State Board or the policies of this Board and which shall be
binding upon the employees of this District and the students of these
schools when issued and shall be communicated to the Board in a timely
manner.

 

 

 

The Superintendent shall be delegated the authority to take necessary
action in circumstances not provided for in Board policy, provided that
such action shall be reported to the Board at the meeting next following
such action.

 

 

0133

****

Judicial

 

 

 

The Board of Education may assume jurisdiction over any dispute
or****controversy arising within this School District and concerning any
matter in which authority has been vested in the Board by statute, rule,
or a contract or policy of this Board.
